The Project Gutenberg eBook of On Time, by Oliver Optic

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you
will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before
using this eBook.

Title: On Time
       or, Bound to Get There

Author: Oliver Optic

Release Date: June 7, 2021 [eBook #65552]

Language: English

Character set encoding: UTF-8

Produced by: Demian Katz, Craig Kirkwood, and the Online Distributed
             Proofreading Team at https://www.pgdp.net (Images courtesy of
             the Digital Library@Villanova University
             (http://digital.library.villanova.edu/))

*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK ON TIME ***

Transcriber’s Notes:

Text enclosed by underscores is in italics (_italics_).

The whole number part of a mixed fraction is separated from the
fractional part with -, for example, 2-1/2.

Additional Transcriber’s Notes are at the end.

       *       *       *       *       *

[Illustration:

  ALGER SERIES No. 149
  On Time

  _BY_
  OLIVER OPTIC

  STREET & SMITH CORPORATION
  PUBLISHERS NEW YORK]

       *       *       *       *       *

BOOKS THAT NEVER GROW OLD

Alger Series

Price, Fifteen Cents Clean Adventure Stories for Boys

The Most Complete List Published

The following list does not contain all the books that Horatio Alger
wrote, but it contains most of them, and certainly the best.

Horatio Alger is to boys what Charles Dickens is to grown-ups. His
work is just as popular to-day as it was years ago. The books have a
quality, the value of which is beyond computation.

There are legions of boys of foreign parents who are being helped
along the road to true Americanism by reading these books which
are so peculiarly American in tone that the reader cannot fail to
absorb some of the spirit of fair play and clean living which is so
characteristically American.

In this list will be included certain books by Edward Stratemeyer,
Oliver Optic, and other authors who wrote the Alger type of stories,
which are equal in interest and wholesomeness with those written by the
famous author after which this great line of books for boys is named.

_ALL TITLES ALWAYS IN PRINT_

   1--Driven From Home                            By Horatio Alger, Jr.
   2--A Cousin’s Conspiracy                       By Horatio Alger, Jr.
   3--Ned Newton                                  By Horatio Alger, Jr.
   4--Andy Gordon                                 By Horatio Alger, Jr.
   5--Tony, the Tramp                             By Horatio Alger, Jr.
   6--The Five Hundred Dollar Check               By Horatio Alger, Jr.
   7--Helping Himself                             By Horatio Alger, Jr.
   8--Making His Way                              By Horatio Alger, Jr.
   9--Try and Trust                               By Horatio Alger, Jr.
  10--Only an Irish Boy                           By Horatio Alger, Jr.
  11--Jed, the Poorhouse Boy                      By Horatio Alger, Jr.
  12--Chester Rand                                By Horatio Alger, Jr.
  13--Grit, the Young Boatman of Pine Point       By Horatio Alger, Jr.
  14--Joe’s Luck                                  By Horatio Alger, Jr.
  15--From Farm Boy to Senator                    By Horatio Alger, Jr.
  16--The Young Outlaw                            By Horatio Alger, Jr.
  17--Jack’s Ward                                 By Horatio Alger, Jr.
  18--Dean Dunham                                 By Horatio Alger, Jr.
  19--In a New World                              By Horatio Alger, Jr.
  20--Both Sides of the Continent                 By Horatio Alger, Jr.
  21--The Store Boy                               By Horatio Alger, Jr.
  22--Brave and Bold                              By Horatio Alger, Jr.
  23--A New York Boy                              By Horatio Alger, Jr.
  24--Bob Burton                                  By Horatio Alger, Jr.
  25--The Young Adventurer                        By Horatio Alger, Jr.
  26--Julius, the Street Boy                      By Horatio Alger, Jr.
  27--Adrift in New York                          By Horatio Alger, Jr.
  28--Tom Brace                                   By Horatio Alger, Jr.
  29--Struggling Upward                           By Horatio Alger, Jr.
  30--The Adventures of a New York Telegraph Boy  By Horatio Alger, Jr.
  31--Tom Tracy                                   By Horatio Alger, Jr.
  32--The Young Acrobat                           By Horatio Alger, Jr.
  33--Bound to Rise                               By Horatio Alger, Jr.
  34--Hector’s Inheritance                        By Horatio Alger, Jr.
  35--Do and Dare                                 By Horatio Alger, Jr.
  36--The Tin Box                                 By Horatio Alger, Jr.
  37--Tom, the Bootblack                          By Horatio Alger, Jr.
  38--Risen from the Ranks                        By Horatio Alger, Jr.
  39--Shifting for Himself                        By Horatio Alger, Jr.
  40--Wait and Hope                               By Horatio Alger, Jr.
  41--Sam’s Chance                                By Horatio Alger, Jr.
  42--Striving for Fortune                        By Horatio Alger, Jr.
  43--Phil, the Fiddler                           By Horatio Alger, Jr.
  44--Slow and Sure                               By Horatio Alger, Jr.
  45--Walter Sherwood’s Probation                 By Horatio Alger, Jr.
  46--The Trials and Triumphs of Mark Mason       By Horatio Alger, Jr.
  47--The Young Salesman                          By Horatio Alger, Jr.
  48--Andy Grant’s Pluck                          By Horatio Alger, Jr.
  49--Facing the World                            By Horatio Alger, Jr.
  50--Luke Walton                                 By Horatio Alger, Jr.
  51--Strive and Succeed                          By Horatio Alger, Jr.
  52--From Canal Boy to President                 By Horatio Alger, Jr.
  53--The Erie Train Boy                          By Horatio Alger, Jr.
  54--Paul, the Peddler                           By Horatio Alger, Jr.
  55--The Young Miner                             By Horatio Alger, Jr.
  56--Charlie Codman’s Cruise                     By Horatio Alger, Jr.
  57--A Debt of Honor                             By Horatio Alger, Jr.
  58--The Young Explorer                          By Horatio Alger, Jr.
  59--Ben’s Nugget                                By Horatio Alger, Jr.
  60--The Errand Boy                              By Horatio Alger, Jr.
  61--Frank and Fearless                          By Horatio Alger, Jr.
  62--Frank Hunter’s Peril                        By Horatio Alger, Jr.
  63--Adrift in the City                          By Horatio Alger, Jr.
  64--Tom Thatcher’s Fortune                      By Horatio Alger, Jr.
  65--Tom Turner’s Legacy                         By Horatio Alger, Jr.
  66--Dan, the Newsboy                            By Horatio Alger, Jr.
  67--Digging for Gold                            By Horatio Alger, Jr.
  68--Lester’s Luck                               By Horatio Alger, Jr.
  69--In Search of Treasure                       By Horatio Alger, Jr.
  70--Frank’s Campaign                            By Horatio Alger, Jr.
  71--Bernard Brook’s Adventures                  By Horatio Alger, Jr.
  72--Robert Coverdale’s Struggles                By Horatio Alger, Jr.
  73--Paul Prescott’s Charge                      By Horatio Alger, Jr.
  74--Mark Manning’s Mission                      By Horatio Alger, Jr.
  75--Rupert’s Ambition                           By Horatio Alger, Jr.
  76--Sink or Swim                                By Horatio Alger, Jr.
  77--The Backwoods Boy                           By Horatio Alger, Jr.
  78--Tom Temple’s Career                         By Horatio Alger, Jr.
  79--Ben Bruce                                   By Horatio Alger, Jr.
  80--The Young Musician                          By Horatio Alger, Jr.
  81--The Telegraph Boy                           By Horatio Alger, Jr.
  82--Work and Win                                By Horatio Alger, Jr.
  83--The Train Boy                               By Horatio Alger, Jr.
  84--The Cash Boy                                By Horatio Alger, Jr.
  85--Herbert Carter’s Legacy                     By Horatio Alger, Jr.
  86--Strong and Steady                           By Horatio Alger, Jr.
  87--Lost at Sea                                 By Horatio Alger, Jr.
  88--From Farm to Fortune                        By Horatio Alger, Jr.
  89--Young Captain Jack                          By Horatio Alger, Jr.
  90--Joe, the Hotel Boy                          By Horatio Alger, Jr.
  91--Out for Business                            By Horatio Alger, Jr.
  92--Falling in With Fortune                     By Horatio Alger, Jr.




ON TIME OR, BOUND TO GET THERE


  BY
  OLIVER OPTIC
  Author of many books for boys which will never grow old.

  [Illustration]

  STREET & SMITH CORPORATION
  PUBLISHERS
  79-89 Seventh Avenue, New York

       *       *       *       *       *

  Copyright, 1869
  By W. T. ADAMS

  Renewal Granted to
  Alice Adams Russell, 1897

  On Time

  (Printed in the United States of America)

       *       *       *       *       *

ON TIME.




CHAPTER I. A NEW PROJECT.


“You don’t want that boat, Wolf, any more than the lake wants water,”
said my father, after I had read an advertisement, in the Ruoara
_Clarion_, of the effects of a bankrupt which were to be sold at
auction the next day.

“I don’t think the lake would amount to much without water; in fact,
to no more than I do without business,” I replied. “I want something
to do, and if I can buy this boat at a low price, I am sure I can make
something out of her.”

“What can you do with her? She is a very pretty plaything; but you and
I can’t afford such luxuries,” added my father.

“I don’t want her for a plaything, father,” I persisted. “I want to
make some money out of her.”

“You are an enterprising boy, Wolf; but I really don’t see any money in
a boat like that.”

“I think there is, though of course I may be mistaken. Since Major
Toppleton has been running his steamers across the lake to Centreport
so many times a day, the ferry would not pay, and the owner has gone up
to Ruoara with his boat. Now, there are many people who wish to cross
between the steamers’ trips.”

“I don’t think that would pay,” said my father, shaking his head.

“There is hardly a boat to let, either in Middleport or Centreport. I
think a boat kept for parties of pleasure would pay well. There are
plenty of people who want to go up the lake fishing; and there would be
a great many more if a decent boat were to be had.”

“Well, Wolf, you have made your own money, and you are smart enough to
take care of it yourself. If you want to go into a speculation on your
own account, I haven’t a word to say. But what will this boat cost?”

“Of course I don’t mean to pay anything like her value. If she can be
bought at a low figure, I can do something with her, even if I have to
sell her.”

“They say she cost five or six hundred dollars.”

“I should say she could not be built and fitted up for anything less
than six hundred. I am willing to go one hundred on her. If I can
buy her for that, I can turn her again so as to double my money,” I
continued confidently.

“I don’t know. A boat is either the best or the worst property in the
world.”

“I know that. It is October now, and the boating-season is about over,
though there is considerable fishing done up the lake. Not many people
want to buy a boat in the fall, and for that reason she won’t bring
much.”

“Here is the hundred dollars. If you can buy her for that, I think you
will be safe enough,” added my father, as he took the bills from the
bureau drawer.

I was very fond of boating, and would rather have made my living in
that way than any other; but while I could get two, or even one dollar
a day for running an engine, I could not afford to risk my chances
with a boat. I was out of business now. I had been contemptuously
discharged from the Lake Shore Railroad, and, not a little to my
chagrin, Colonel Wimpleton, who had made me liberal offers to serve in
his new steamer, did not repeat them. My father also was out of employ,
and, though we were not likely to suffer at present for the want of
work, we could ill afford to be idle.

I had taken it into my head that I could make something with a good
sailboat. The people of the two towns, as well as many strangers who
came to them, were fond of fishing, and six or seven dollars a day for
such a boat as I proposed to buy would not be an extravagant price,
including, as it would, my own services as skipper. Twenty days’ work
would refund my capital, and I could reasonably hope to obtain this
amount of business during the next two months. The next summer she
would be a small fortune to me, for boats were in constant demand.

The next day I crossed the lake, and went up to Ruoara in Colonel
Wimpleton’s new steamer, the _Ucayga_. This was the first time I
had sailed in her, and I could not help seeing that she was “a big
thing.” It seemed almost incredible to me that I had been offered the
situation of captain of this boat, and even more incredible that I had
refused it; but both of these statements were true. I had come to the
conclusion that the colonel had repented of his splendid offer.

Just now the Lake Shore Railroad was in the ascendant, and the _Ucayga_
was under a shadow. She had very few passengers, while the train which
had just left Middleport had been crowded. It was a busy season among
travelers, and I heard that the colonel was terribly galled by the
ill-success of his line. Major Toppleton had ordered the captains of
the two boats which ran up the lake to be regularly ten minutes behind
time, so that the steamer was unable to leave Centreport in season
to connect with the trains at Ucayga. This delay entirely defeated
the colonel’s plans, and the _Ucayga_ was generally obliged to leave
without any of the through passengers, which comprised more than half.
Without them the boat would not pay.

It did not make much difference to Colonel Wimpleton whether the
steamer made or lost money for him, if he could only get ahead of the
railroad. The _Ucayga_ had failed to connect with the railroads at the
foot of the lake two or three times a week; and this had given her a
very bad reputation. It was true that the Lightning Express, on which
I had formerly run as engineer, had been similarly unfortunate quite a
number of times; but as the major’s plan was fully understood by the
people up the lake, the train was regarded as the surer of the two
modes of conveyance.

Lewis Holgate, the son of the man who had robbed my father, was still
the engineer of the Lightning Express. He was under the powerful
protection of Tommy Toppleton, who ruled all Middleport by ruling his
father, the magnate of the town. Lewis was a treacherous wretch. He
had labored to ruin me, under the direction of his young master; but I
tried to think as kindly of him as I could. I was daily in fear that,
through his unskilful management of the locomotive, an accident would
occur on the road. I am almost sure that Colonel Wimpleton would have
hailed such a catastrophe with satisfaction, so deep and bitter was his
hatred of Major Toppleton, and so great was his opposition to the road.
As the matter stood, neither the train nor the steamer was entirely
reliable. A little more shrewdness, skill, and enterprise would have
turned the scale in favor of either.

The _Ucayga_ started this morning without waiting for the arrival of
the up-lake steamer. As soon as she left the wharf, I began to walk
about her decks and cabins on an exploring-tour. I was delighted with
her appointments; and, while I tried to be impartial between the
steamer and the railroad, my admiration of the beautiful craft inclined
me to believe that she ought to win. In the course of my wanderings
about the boat, I came to the forward deck. About the first person
I encountered here was Mr. Waddie Wimpleton. He sat on the capstan,
smoking a cigar, for the young scion of the Wimpleton house was bent on
being as “big” as anybody else.

“What are you doing on our boat, Wolf Penniman?” demanded he, leaping
down from his high seat the moment he saw me.

“I’m going down to Ruoara on her; that’s all I’m doing just now,” I
replied.

“Did you come to count the passengers?” said he bitterly.

“I did not, though, for that matter, it would not be a difficult task
to count them.”

“None of your impudence, Wolf Penniman!”

“What’s the matter, Waddie?” I asked, laughing. “I suppose you know I’m
not the engineer of the railroad now, and you need not waste any hard
words upon me.”

“I don’t want to see you on this boat, or on our side of the lake,” he
added, restoring the cigar to his mouth, and looking as magnificent as
a little magnate could look.

“I won’t hurt you, or the boat.”

“I’ll bet you won’t!”

“This is a splendid boat,” I continued, in a conciliatory tone.

“Splendid enough.”

“But I don’t think you are smart to let the major get ahead of you, as
he does.”

“What do you mean by that?”

“If I were running this boat, I should have my share of the through
passengers,” I replied, with all the good-nature I possessed.

“You would do big things!” sneered he.

“I should try to.”

“You can’t come it over me, as you did over my father.”

“I haven’t the least desire to come it over you. I expect to go into
business on my own account pretty soon,” I replied.

“If it hadn’t been for me, you would have been captain of this boat,”
said he, intending to throw his heaviest shot by this remark.

“Well, I suppose you did what you thought was best for the line; and if
you are satisfied, I ought to be.”

“You didn’t make much when you ran away from Centreport.”

“Neither did I lose much. If we are both satisfied about that, we need
not quarrel.”

“I shall always quarrel with you, Wolf Penniman, as long as I live,” he
added spitefully. “I hate you!”

“Well, I hope you will have a good time. For my part, I don’t hate you,
Waddie; and if I had a chance to do you a good turn, I would do it now
as quick as ever I would.”

“You needn’t snuffle to me. I don’t ask any favors of you. I am
president of the steamboat company, and I suppose you would like to
have me get down on my knees and beg you to take command of this boat.”

“Not much,” I replied, laughing.

“You think you are a great man!”

“No, I’m only a boy, like yourself.”

“If I had seen you before the boat started, you should not have gone in
her.”

“That game was tried on the other side of the lake. It don’t work well.”

“Don’t you come on board of this boat again; if you do, we will try it
on.”

Both of the little magnates down upon me, and I was forbidden to ride
in either steamer or cars! Waddie puffed up his cigar and walked away,
evidently with the feeling that he was not making much out of me. The
_Ucayga_ touched at the wharf, and I went on shore. So did the little
magnate of Centreport.




CHAPTER II. THE AUCTION AT RUOARA.


It was not yet time for the auction, and I waited on the wharf to see
the steamer start. She was still a novelty in Ruoara, and many people
came down to the shore to observe her beautiful proportions, and the
speed with which she cut through the waters. Hundreds of them made the
trip to Ucayga and back for the sole purpose of seeing the boat. After
the old steamers were taken off, and before the _Ucayga_ was put on
the route, the inhabitants of this town had been obliged to cross the
ferry to Grass Springs, and take the trains of the Lake Shore Railroad
when they wished to go in either direction. The advent of this palatial
steamer was therefore a new era to them, and they regarded her with
pride and pleasure.

Ruoara was situated nearly opposite Grass Springs; but the four islands
lay off the former town, and a little below. The South Shoe was due
west from the wharf where the boat touched, and she was obliged to
back, and go over a mile out of her course, to avoid the island and
the shoal water which lay near it. The South Shoe, therefore, was a
nuisance in its relation to the steamboat navigation of Ruoara. The
five minutes which this circuit required had doubtless caused the
_Ucayga_ to miss her connection more than once.

I have been told that I am a machinist by nature. I do not know how
this may be, but I am sure that I never see a difficulty without
attempting to study out the means to remedy it. As I stood on the
wharf, watching the winding course of the splendid steamer, I could
not help grappling with the problem of saving this loss of time on the
trip. These five minutes might sometimes enable the boat to win the day
in the competition with the railroad.

As I have hinted before, I knew every foot of bottom in this part of
the lake. I had sailed hundreds of miles among these islands, and,
while I was thinking over the matter, the key to the problem flashed
upon my mind. I do not mean to say that it was a very brilliant idea;
but, simple as it was, it had evidently not occurred to the captain of
the steamer, who was a Hitaca man, and knew only the ordinary channels
of the lake, used by the steamers. I had an idea; but I deemed it wise
to keep my own counsel in the matter, for a suggestion from me would
probably have been deemed impertinent.

When the _Ucayga_ disappeared behind the South Shoe, I turned my
attention to the business which had brought me to Ruoara. A short
distance down the lake, and on its bank, was a beautiful and very
elaborate cottage, which had evidently been intended as a copy of that
occupied by Colonel Wimpleton. Off the lake-wall lay the boat which I
hoped to purchase. The owner had made an immense “spread,” and failed
out clean in the height of his glory. People who could afford to
purchase such rich and gaudy trappings as those with which the bankrupt
owner fitted up his mansion, did not care to buy them at second-hand.
Everybody expected that the ornamental appendages of the establishment
would be sold for a tithe of their cost; and so they were.

To most of the people on the lake, any boat beyond a skiff for actual
service was regarded as a luxury, especially such a craft as that which
floated off the wall. Taking hold of the painter, I hauled her in, and
stepped on board. She was a very rakish-looking boat, sloop-rigged,
with a cabin forward containing two berths, and the smallest stove it
is possible to imagine. She was about twenty-four feet long, and as
well appointed in every respect as though she had been fitted up to
cross the ocean. The owner had certainly lavished money upon her, which
he could afford to do, at the expense of his creditors.

While I was examining her I saw the crowd of purchasers moving about
the house as the sale proceeded. It was a hopeful sign that no one
seemed to care a straw about the boat. Men and women were examining
everything else about the establishment, but the _Belle_--for that was
the name I found upon her stern--was wholly neglected. I continued my
examination without the notice of any one for some time. I took the
trap off the well, and got at the bottom. I found that she was built in
the most thorough manner. I was sure she had cost all of six hundred
dollars.

“What are you doing in that boat, Wolf Penniman?”

I raised my head from the diligent search I was making in the bottom of
the boat, and discovered Mr. Waddie on the wall.

“I am looking at her,” I replied.

“What are you looking at her for?”

“Because I want to see her.”

“What do you want to see her for?”

“I take an interest in boats,” I answered, not caring to be very
communicative with the scion of the Wimpletons.

It immediately occurred to me that Waddie’s business at Ruoara was the
same as my own, and my heart sank within me, for I could not hope to
bid against one who had so much money at his command. But I could not
think, for the life of me, why Waddie should want the boat, for he
had one of about the same size, which was his own private property.
Probably he had taken a fancy to her, as I had.

“Are you going to buy her, Wolf?” asked he, with more interest than he
was accustomed to manifest in anything.

“That will depend upon circumstances.”

“Who told you that I was going to buy this boat?” demanded he sharply.

“No one.”

“You came up to bid against me!”

“I didn’t know you were coming till I saw you here.”

“If you bid against me, Wolf Penniman, I’ll be the death of you.”

“I think not,” I replied, laughing at this rash threat.

“I will! You will find me an uglier customer to deal with than you did
Tom Toppleton. Do you think I’m going to have you dogging my steps
wherever I go?”

I could only laugh.

“No one about here wants the boat but me,” he added.

“I want her.”

“Yes, and you want her only because I do,” snarled he.

“It’s an open thing, I suppose. This is a public auction; and if you
are willing to give more than I can, of course you will have her,” I
replied.

“If you don’t bid against me, she will be knocked off at the first
offer.”

“We won’t quarrel, Waddie.”

“Yes, we will, if you bid against me. The auctioneer is coming. You
mind what I say. If you bid against me, you will repent it as long as
you live.”

Such language from an ordinary boy would have been very remarkable;
from Waddie it was not at all so. It was his usual style of bullying.
It seemed very strange that the young gentleman should attempt to bully
me into silence when he could outbid me; but I ascertained afterward
that his father objected to buying the boat, and even refused to
furnish the money, so that Waddie could only bid to the extent of the
funds then in his possession. However weak and indulgent the colonel
was, he had not sunk into the condition of subserviency to his son into
which the major had fallen.

The auctioneer, followed by only a small portion of the crowd from
the house, approached the spot where Waddie stood. I jumped ashore,
and secured a place on the wall. The auctioneer took his stand on the
stern of the _Belle_; but none of the attendants upon the sale felt
interest enough to go on board, or even to examine the craft. It was
plain enough that the competition lay between Waddie and myself alone.
I had made up my mind to lose the boat, and I felt badly about it. I
could not expect to bid successfully against the son of the rich man.
However, I meant to try, and I only hoped that Waddie would keep his
temper. He had certainly given me fair warning; but perhaps it was my
misfortune that I did not happen to be afraid of him.

While I stood there, I could not help thinking that I was spoiling all
my chances of a situation in the future on board of the _Ucayga_, if
the colonel should again be disposed to repeat his munificent offers.
But I had a dream of doing even a better thing with the _Belle_ than
I could on board of the steamer or on the Lake Shore Railroad, and
without being subject to the caprices of either of the young gentlemen
who were so potent in both.

The auctioneer gave us a grandiloquent description of the “fairy
pleasure barge” which was before us. He was not a nautical man, and
sadly bungled in his terms. She was the fastest sailer on the lake; was
a good sea-boat. She was right and tight in every respect.

“For, gentlemen,” he added facetiously, “a boat, unlike a man, is a
good deal better when she is tight than when she is not tight”--a
witticism at which the auctioneer laughed much more heartily than the
auditors. “She is copper-fastened, besides being fastened to the wall.
Like myself, and some of you, gentlemen, she is very sharp. And now,
how much am I offered for this magnificent yacht, the finest, without
exception, on the lake. What shall I have for her?”

“Twenty-five dollars,” said Waddie Wimpleton, who could not conceal his
interest and anxiety in the result.

“Did you say twenty-five dollars, Mr. Wimpleton?” said the auctioneer,
with a look which was intended to manifest his astonishment at the
smallness of the bid. “Why, she cost over six hundred dollars! You
can’t mean that, Mr. Wimpleton.”

“Yes, I do mean it!” said Waddie smartly.

“Twenty-five dollars is bid for this splendid yacht, sharp as a Yankee
pedler, and copper-fastened, besides being fastened to the wall. Who
says a hundred?”

No one said a hundred. No one said anything for a few moments, during
which time the auctioneer dwelt upon the beautiful proportions of the
craft, and repeated his jokes for a third time.

“Only twenty-five dollars is bid for the _Belle_! Why, gentlemen, that
would not pay for one of her sails.”

“Thirty dollars,” I added.

“Thirty dollars!” repeated the auctioneer, glancing curiously at me.
“Perhaps I ought to say that the conditions of this sale are cash on
delivery. Thirty dollars! Shall I have a hundred?”

Waddie glanced furiously at me, and I saw that his fists were clenched.

“Thirty-five,” said he.

“Forty.”

“Forty-five,” snapped he.

“Fifty,” I added quietly.

I had hardly uttered the word before Waddie’s fist was planted squarely
on the end of my nose, and the blood spurted from it. He was about to
follow it up with another, when I deemed it necessary to do something.
I parried his stroke, and hit him so fairly in the eye that he reeled,
lost his balance, and went over backwards into the lake with a fearful
splash.




CHAPTER III. ON BOARD THE “BELLE.”


Somehow, when we resort to violence, we often do much more than we
intend. I did not desire to do anything more than defend myself; but
Waddie stood between me and the water, and when I hit him, he went
over. I have never claimed to be saint or angel. I was human enough to
“get mad” when the young gentleman flattened my nose and made it bleed.
I simply defended myself by the only means within my power, though I
did not intend to throw Waddie into the lake.

The water was not more than three or four feet deep near the wall;
but Waddie might have been drowned in it, if he had not been promptly
assisted by the auctioneer and others. But if the water was not deep,
it was cold, and hydropathy is an excellent remedy for overheated blood.

“That’s the way Wolf fights,” said Waddie, as he shook the water from
his clothes.

“He served you right,” replied the auctioneer, who, I believe, did not
belong to Ruoara--certainly not to Centreport.

“Do you call this fair play?” demanded Waddie, with chattering teeth.

“To be sure I do. You turned on him, and hit him without any warning,”
retorted the auctioneer. “He hit you back, and paid you in your own
coin. You went over into the lake, but that was not his fault. Fifty
dollars is bid for this beautiful boat, that cost over six hundred.”

“I told him I would be the death of him if he bid against me,” replied
Waddie; but there was not much life in his words.

“O, ho! you did--did you? Well, I’m glad he knocked you into the lake;
and if I had known what you told him, you might have staid in the lake
for all me,” added the auctioneer indignantly, for the greatest sin
in his estimation was a conspiracy to suppress bidding at an auction.
“Fifty dollars! Shall I have sixty?”

Waddie lingered on the wall, shivering with the cold; but, to my
astonishment, he did not make any additional bid. I could not
understand it. The auctioneer again called the attention of the
audience to the many virtues of the _Belle_, and then observed, in
piteous tones, that only fifty dollars was bid for the beautiful craft.

“I haven’t done with you yet, Wolf Penniman,” said Waddie, creeping up
to me.

“Well, I hope you will finish with me as soon as possible,” I replied,
stepping back from the wall so as not to afford him any temptation to
push me into the lake.

“I’ll keep my word with you.”

“Fifty dollars!” stormed the auctioneer, justly indignant at the
sacrifice of the boat.

“When must it be paid for?” demanded Waddie.

“Cash on delivery,” replied the auctioneer sharply.

“Can it be delivered to-morrow?”

“No; the sale must be closed to-day. Fifty dollars!”

“Sixty,” said Waddie, with an ugly glance at me, after one of the
bystanders had whispered a word to him, to the effect, I suppose, that
he would lend him ten dollars.

“Sixty-five,” I added quietly.

“Sixty-five!” repeated the auctioneer, more hopefully.

Waddie was beginning to warm up again, and had actually ceased to
shiver. He spoke to the bystander with whom he was acquainted, and then
bid seventy dollars. I immediately advanced to seventy-five.

“Seventy-five!” shouted the auctioneer. “Gentlemen, this is a shameful
sacrifice of valuable property.”

I saw Waddie’s friend shake his head, as though he was not willing to
risk more than twenty dollars on the speculation; but while the young
gentleman was arguing the point with him, the _Belle_ was struck off to
me. The scion of the house of Wimpleton swore like a bad boy when this
result was reached. He shook his fist at me, and raised a laugh among
the bystanders, not all of whom appeared to reverence the idol which
had been set up in Centreport. My purchase included the small boat
which served as a tender to the _Belle_, the mooring-buoy, and other
appurtenances.

The auctioneer’s clerk gave me a bill of sale of the boat, and I paid
the cash on the spot. I was the happiest young man on the shore of
the lake. Waddie had disappeared as soon as the sale was completed,
and I was subjected to no further annoyance from him. Having finished
my business in Ruoara, I was ready to sail for home, and astonish the
Middleporters with the sight of my purchase.

“That’s a fine boat you have bought,” said one of the half-dozen
persons who stood on the wall watching my movements.

I looked up and saw that the speaker was Dick Bayard, a Wimpletonian,
and the senior captain in the Centreport Battalion. He was a leading
spirit among the students on his side of the lake. He had been the
actual, though not the nominal, leader in the war on the Horse Shoe,
and had distinguished himself by his energy and enterprise in that
memorable conflict. His father lived in Ruoara, which accounted for his
appearance there when the institute was in session. I had a great deal
of respect for him, after I saw how well he bore himself in the silly
war, though he had always been a strong and unreasonable supporter of
Waddie, and had aided him in persecuting me before I was driven out of
Centreport.

“Yes, she is a first-rate boat,” I replied; for speaking well of my
boat was even better than speaking well of my dog.

“Are you going down to Middleport now?”

“Yes; right off.”

“Will you take a passenger?” he asked, rather diffidently.

“Who?”

“Myself.”

“I will, with pleasure.”

“Thank you, Wolf.”

I pushed the tender up to the wall, and he stepped into it.

“Some of the fellows say you are not a bit like other boys, Wolf; and I
begin to think they are more than half-right,” said Dick Bayard, as he
came on board of the _Belle_.

“Well, I don’t know. I don’t suppose I’m very different from other
fellows,” I replied, with becoming modesty.

“You don’t seem to have a grudge against any one. If a fellow abuses
you, you treat him as well as ever. You knock him over in self-defense,
and then behave toward him just as though nothing had happened.”

“I think I can afford to do so.”

“I didn’t think you would let me sail up the lake with you,” laughed he.

“Why not?”

“Like a good many other fellows, I have toadied to Waddie Wimpleton,
and helped him hunt you down.”

“I don’t care anything about that now.”

“I see you don’t. Can I help you?” he asked, as I began to hoist the
mainsail.

“You may take the peak-halyard, if you please.”

We hoisted the jib and mainsail, and stood up the lake with a gentle
breeze. I took the elaborately carved tiller in my hand, and if ever
a young man was proud of his boat, his name was Wolfert Penniman.
The _Belle_ fully realized all even of the auctioneer’s enthusiastic
description.

“Don’t you belong to the institute now, Dick?” I asked, after we had
said all that it was necessary to say in praise of the _Belle_, and
after my companion had related to me more of her history than I knew
before.

“Not much,” said he, laughing; “my name is still on the books, and I
am still captain of Company A, Wimpleton Battalion; but I don’t go to
school half the time.”

“Why not?” I asked curiously.

“I don’t want to. Since the steamboat company was formed, Waddie has
put on so many airs that some of us can’t stand it. In fact, our
president does not treat us much better than he did you.”

“That is unfortunate for you, and still more so for him.”

“They say the Toppletonians are down upon Tommy; but I am inclined to
think the feeling is worse on our side than on yours. Waddie is the
most unpopular fellow on our side of the lake.”

“I have often wondered how you fellows, whose fathers are rich men,
could let Waddie lord it over you as he does. My father is a poor man,
but I can’t stand it.”

“They won’t stand it much longer,” replied Dick, shaking his head. “Our
fellows have had about enough of it.”

“What are you going to do?” I inquired.

“Well, I don’t exactly know, and, if I did, I suppose it would not be
prudent to tell you,” laughed Dick. “They are going to turn him out of
office, for one thing.”

“I think that would do him good. That same thing will happen to Tommy
Toppleton at the next election.”

“Waddie got into a row the other day with a lot of fellows that don’t
belong to the institute. He undertook to drive them off the ground
where they were playing, near the town school. They wouldn’t go, and
one of them, a plucky little fellow, spoke his mind pretty freely to
him. Waddie and one of his cronies caught him the next day and gave
him a cowhiding. The town fellows mean to pay him off, and I know they
will.”

“They will only get into trouble. Waddie’s father will stand by him,” I
added.

“I don’t know what they mean to do.”

“What did Waddie want to drive the town fellows off the ground for?” I
inquired.

“They were playing ball, and Waddie wanted the ground to have a game
with his friends.”

“Whose ground was it?”

“It was the piece of land called the school pasture, and belongs to the
town. You know where it is.”

“I know the place.”

“One party had just as good a right to the ground as the other; but
you know how Waddie does things. If he wants anything he takes it, and
makes a row if everybody don’t yield to him.”

“That’s his style.”

“But don’t say anything about what I’ve said, please. If anything
happens to Waddie, it will be laid to these fellows.”

“They ought to have been smart enough to keep still themselves,” I
replied.

“One of them told me about it in confidence. I shouldn’t have said
anything to you, if you lived on our side now.”

“I won’t say anything.”

I was not likely to think anything more about it, and still less to
meddle with the affair.

“We are tired of this thing on our side of the lake,” continued Dick.
“If we had twenty fellows that would serve Waddie as you did to-day,
when he pitched into you, we might make a decent fellow of him after a
while. For my own part, I don’t mean to take a word of lip from him. If
he insults me, I shall give him as good as he sends. Indeed, I have
done so once or twice, and he hates me like poison for it.”

“I don’t think you make anything by using hard words.”

“What do you do, Wolf?”

“I don’t think that abusive language does me any harm, and I mean to be
good-natured, whatever happens; though, when it comes to hitting me in
the face, and giving me a bloody nose, I can’t quite stand that, and I
defend myself as vigorously as I know how. I think a fellow can be a
gentleman without putting his neck under anybody’s heel.”

I landed Dick Bayard at Centreport, and stood over to the other side of
the lake. I moored the _Belle_ in a little bay not far from my father’s
house, and went home to report my good fortune.




CHAPTER IV. IN THE PICNIC GROVE.


Of course I thought of but little except my boat after she came into my
possession, and before the day closed I had exhibited her to all who
felt an interest in such matters. My father was delighted with her,
and congratulated me on the bargain I had made. Tom Walton declared
that the _Belle_ was the finest craft on the lake. Before night, so
thoroughly had my boat been talked up in Middleport, I had a party
engaged for the next day, to visit the fishing-grounds.

After seeing the boat, and discussing the matter with my father, I had
the conscience to fix the price of her at seven dollars a day, which
included my own services. When a gentleman spoke of engaging her for a
week or more, I told him he should have her for five dollars a day for
any longer period than three days.

The weather was very warm and pleasant for October, and my first trip
to the fishing-grounds was a great success. My party were delighted
with the boat, and I did all I could to make them comfortable. The
gentlemen had a good time, and spoke so favorably of the _Belle_ and of
me, that the person who proposed to go for a week closed the bargain
with me, and I was engaged to start on Monday morning. I was in a fair
way to get back, before the season closed, what I had paid for the boat.

On Saturday I had no engagement; but I found it quite impossible to
keep out of the _Belle_. I intended to go on an exploring expedition
up the lake, in order to find some good landing-places. I went after
Tom Walton, to give him an invitation to accompany me; but I found he
was at work for a day or two in one of the stores. The wind blew quite
fresh from the northwest, and the lake was tolerably rough, which made
me the more desirous of testing the qualities of the _Belle_.

While I was reefing down the mainsail, I saw the _Highflyer_ pass the
Narrows, headed up the lake. This was Waddie Wimpleton’s boat. She
was about the size of the _Belle_, and I could not see why the young
gentleman wanted the latter. The _Highflyer_ would certainly have
satisfied me, though in the course of the day I was better informed in
regard to his motives. Waddie had reefed his mainsail, and was going at
a rapid rate up the lake.

I had no wish to come into collision with him, though I was rather
anxious to know which boat could make the best time. He was alone;
indeed, I had often noticed that he sailed without any company; and, as
neither of the institutes was in session on Saturdays, I had often seen
him bound up the lake on that day. He had the reputation of being a
good boatman, and certainly he had had experience enough to qualify him
to act in that capacity.

I cast off the moorings of the _Belle_, and stood out into the lake,
where I could get the full benefit of the wind. Waddie was some
distance ahead of me; but I soon saw that his eye was upon me. I
intended to keep well over on the west side of the lake, so as to avoid
him. I needed not the express declaration he had made to assure me that
he hated me, and that he would use all possible means to annoy and
punish me. Although I was not afraid of him, I did not wish to afford
him any opportunity to gratify his malignity upon me.

He sailed the _Highflyer_ very well. Every minute he glanced at the
_Belle_, to ascertain what progress she was making. Probably he
supposed that I had put off for the sole purpose of racing with him,
which, however, was not true, though I was very glad of a chance to
measure paces with him. Neither of us was obliged to wait long for a
decided result, for in half an hour from the time I started, the two
boats were abreast of each other, though still half a mile apart. Then
the reason why he wished to purchase the _Belle_ was apparent. She was
faster than the _Highflyer_; and Waddie did not enjoy being beaten by
any boat on the lake.

Though I was not near enough to observe the effect upon him, I had no
doubt he was foaming and fuming with wrath at the audacity of a poor
boy like me, who ventured to beat him. While I was walking by him
with perfect ease, he threw his boat up into the wind, and turned out
the reef in the mainsail. The wind was freshening every hour, and I
regarded this as a very imprudent step on his part. In fact, I began to
feel that I might, in some way, be held responsible for any disaster
which should happen to him, if by racing with him I goaded him on to
any rashness. I therefore came about, and began to beat down the lake,
to assure him that I was not inclined to race under whole sail in such
a blow.

When he had shaken out his reef, however, he gave chase to me. The
_Highflyer_ labored heavily in the rough waves, and I was not sure that
the duty of rescuing her rash skipper from a watery grave would not
soon devolve upon me. He followed, and having all sail on his boat, he
gained upon me on the wind. At this rate he would soon be crowing over
me, and, the reputation of the _Belle_ would be injured. I was averse
to being beaten, even under a reefed mainsail. I let out my sheet, and
stood over toward the eastern shore. Waddie followed me, and as I could
not now decline the race on his terms, I soon headed the _Belle_ up the
lake.

By the time I had laid my course, the _Highflyer_ was abreast of me.
Now both of us had the wind on the quarter. A boat on the wind, with
all sail set, can be better handled than when going before it. I saw
the _Highflyer_ plunging down deep into the waves; but I suppose
Waddie had not learned that a boat overpressed in a blow does not make
any better time than one carrying just sail enough to make her go
comfortably, without wasting her headway in dives and plunges. On this
tack he no longer gained upon me. On the contrary, it was soon evident
that the _Belle_ was running away from him. My boat was good for at
least one more mile in five than the _Highflyer_.

I ran away from Waddie, and went up the lake as far as Gulfport. I soon
lost sight of him, and I concluded that he had made a landing somewhere
on the shore. It was too rough to explore the coast, for the wind was
driving the waves upon the rocks and beaches with savage power, and
it was not prudent to go too near the land. I put the _Belle_ about,
and commenced beating down the lake. I thought no more of Waddie, my
mind being wholly taken up in sailing my boat, and in the pleasant
anticipation of making a profitable thing of her.

On the eastern shore of the lake, between Centreport and Gulfport,
there was a wood, covering, perhaps, a square mile of land. It was much
used by picnic parties in the summer, and had a cook-house for frying
fish and making chowders. A rude landing-place had been prepared for
steamers, for the deep water extended quite up to the shore. In the
process of beating the _Belle_ down the lake, I ran her close up to the
pier off the grove. As I was coming about, I heard a cry which seemed
to indicate great distress. I was startled by the sound; but, as there
were neither Indians nor wild beasts in the vicinity, I concluded that
I had mistaken the nature of the call.

I was proceeding on my course when the cry was repeated. It was
certainly the sound of mingled anger and distress. I threw the _Belle_
up into the wind, and listened. The cry was repeated, and I stood in
toward the shore. Passing the pier, I saw Waddie’s boat secured to the
logs. Just above the wharf there was a little land-locked bay, into
which I ran the _Belle_. The cry of distress was not again repeated;
but my curiosity was fully aroused. I concluded that Waddie had found
some boy or girl, smaller and weaker than himself, and was exercising
the evil propensities of his nature upon his victim.

I lowered my sails, and secured them. Fastening the painter of the
_Belle_ to a tree, I walked toward the cook-house, with the small
boat-hook, not bigger than a broom-handle, in my hand. I must say that
I dreaded a conflict of any description with Mr. Waddie. There was no
more reason in him than in a stone wall, and he really delighted in
torturing a victim. If any one interfered to repress his cruelty, he
took the act as a personal insult, and regarded himself as oppressed by
not being allowed to exercise his malice upon the weak.

I walked cautiously toward the spot from which the cry had come, for
I wished to obtain a view of the situation before I was seen myself.
The trees were large, and afforded me abundant concealment. Every few
moments I stopped to listen; and I soon heard several voices, some of
them peculiarly gruff and unnatural. It was plain that Waddie and his
victim were not the only actors in the scene. Placing myself behind a
tree, I took a careful observation, and discovered smoke rising among
the branches; but I could not yet see who the speakers were. Something
was going on; but whether it was a comedy or a tragedy I could not
determine.

I continued cautiously to approach the spot, and soon gained a position
where I could obtain a full view of the scene. I had expected to
find Waddie persecuting some poor wretch. The “boot was on the other
leg.” The scion of the house of Wimpleton was the victim, and not the
oppressor. The world seemed to be turned upside down. Waddie, divested
of all his clothing but his shirt and pants, was tied to a tree. Near
him a fire was snapping and crackling, while over it hung a kettle.
Although I was at the windward of the fire, the odor which pervaded the
woods assured me that the kettle was filled with tar.

Around the fire were four stout boys, rigged out in fantastic garments,
their faces covered with masks and other devices to conceal their
identity. Near the fire lay a couple of bolsters, which, no doubt, were
filled with feathers. One of these fellows was stirring the contents
of the kettle, and another was replenishing the fire, while the other
two looked on. Who they were I could form no idea, for their strange
uniforms completely disguised them.

Waddie looked like the very picture of hopeless misery. I had never
seen such an aspect of utter despair on his face. He was as pale as
death, and I could even see the tremors of his frame as he trembled
with terror.




CHAPTER V. THE BATTLE WITH WORDS.


I was not quite willing to believe that the four stout fellows in the
vicinity of the kettle really intended to “tar and feather” Waddie
Wimpleton. In the first place, it was astounding that any one on the
Centreport side of the lake should have the audacity to conceive such
an outrage upon the sacred person of the magnate’s only son. Why, the
people generally held the great man in about the same reverence as
the people of England hold their queen. The idea of committing any
indignity upon his person, or upon the persons of any of his family,
seemed too monstrous to be entertained.

I judged that the scene before me was the sequel to the incident of
which Dick Bayard had told me. But the actors were Centreporters, and
it was amazing to think that even four boys in the whole town could
actually undertake to revenge themselves upon Mr. Waddie. All that I
had done in my quarrel with him was in self-defense, and the scene
transpiring before me was quite incomprehensible.

Perhaps what Dick Bayard had told me in some measure explained the
situation. It was a fact that the students of the Wimpleton Institute
were in a state of rebellion so far as Waddie was concerned, and the
influence of this spirit had doubtless extended beyond the borders of
the academy. If the Wimpletonians were audacious enough to think of
mutiny against the young lordling, it was not strange that others, not
immediately associated with him, should even outdo their own intentions.

The particular school where Waddie had driven the boys from their
ball-grounds was near the outskirts of the village, and was attended by
the sons of some of the farmers living far enough from the center of
influence to be in a measure beyond its sphere. After all, perhaps it
is really more singular that any American boys could be found who would
submit to the tyranny and domineering of Waddie, than that a few should
be found who were willing to resist it to the last extremity.

Strange as the phenomenon seemed to be to one who for years had
witnessed the homage paid to Waddie Wimpleton and Tommy Toppleton, the
fact was undeniable. The little magnate of Centreport was there, bound
fast to a tree. The young ruffians, who were so intent upon retaliating
for the injury inflicted upon them, had probably lain in wait at this
unfrequented place, perhaps for several weeks. I had heard the screams
of their victim when they captured him, and I was sure that he had not
yielded without a rugged resistance.

The fire blazed under the tar-kettle, and the preparations were rapidly
progressing. I kept in my hiding-place, and watched with breathless
interest the proceedings. So completely were the actors disguised
that I could not recognize a single one of them. So far as Waddie
was concerned, I could not be supposed to have any deep interest in
his fate. Perhaps the humiliating and disgusting operation which the
ruffians intended to perform would do him good.

I ought to say here that the newspapers, at about this time, were
filled with the details of such an indignity inflicted upon an
obnoxious person in another part of the country. Probably some of these
boys had read the account, and it had suggested to them a suitable
punishment for Waddie. I had seen the narrative myself, but only with
contempt for the persecutors, and sympathy for their victim.

Certainly these boys had no right to inflict such an outrage upon
Waddie. Though he had been no friend of mine, and though, on the
contrary, he gloried in being my enemy, I pitied him. If I did anything
for him, it would be just like him to kick me the next day for my
pains. I had stumbled upon the scene by accident, but it seemed to me
that I had a duty to perform--a duty from which my unpleasant relations
with the victim did not absolve me.

Should I interfere to prevent this indignity? My mother was not
present, but it seemed to me that I could hear her voice saying to me,
in the gentlest of tones, “Love your enemies.” I saw her before me,
reading from the New Testament the divine message. Then she seemed to
look up from the book, and say to me, “Wolfert, if Christ could forgive
and bless even those who sought to slay Him, can you not lift one of
your fingers to help one who has wronged you?”

The duty seemed to be very plain, though I could not help thinking
that Waddie would insult me the next moment after I had served him,
just as Tommy Toppleton had done when I rescued him from his captors on
the lake. No matter! I must do my duty, whether he did his or not. I
was responsible for my own actions, not for his.

This conclusion was happily reached; but then it was not so easy to act
upon its behests. Four stout fellows were before me, either of whom was
a full match for me. What could I do against the whole of them? Perhaps
nothing; perhaps I could not save Waddie from his fate; but it was none
the less my duty to try, even at the expense of some hard knocks. I had
the little boat-hook in my hand. It was an insignificant weapon with
which to fight four times my own force. But somehow I felt that I was
in the right; I felt the inspiration of a desire to do a good deed,
and I had a vague assurance that help would in some manner come to me,
though from what direction I could not imagine, for at this season of
the year few people ever visited the picnic grove.

Leaving the shadow of the tree, which had concealed me from the young
ruffians, I walked boldly toward them. The tramp of my feet on the
crackling sticks instantly attracted their attention. To my great
satisfaction they suddenly retreated into a little thicket near the
tar-kettle.

“Save me, Wolf! Save me!” cried Waddie, in tones of the most abject
despondency. “Save me, and I will be your best friend.”

I did not believe in any promises he could make; but I directed my
steps toward him, with the intention of releasing him.

“Stop!” shouted one of the boys, in a singularly gruff voice, which
afforded me no clue to the owner’s identity.

I halted and looked toward the thicket.

“It’s only Wolf Penniman,” said one of the party, who spoke behind the
mask that covered his face. “It’s all right. He’ll help us do it.”

“What are you going to do?” I demanded, pretty sharply.

“We are only paying off Waddie. Will you help us, Wolf?” replied one of
the conspirators.

“No, certainly not. You have no right to meddle with him.”

“Well, we are going to do it, whether we have any right or not. We will
tar and feather him, as sure as he lives.”

“Who are you?” I asked innocently.

“No matter who we are. Has Waddie any right to insult us? Has he any
right to cowhide a fellow smaller than he is, within an inch of his
life?”

“No; but two wrongs don’t make a right, anyhow you can fix it. Don’t
you think it is mean for four great fellows like you to set upon one,
and abuse him?” I asked.

“It isn’t any meaner than what Waddie did, anyhow. We mean to teach him
that he can’t trample upon us fellows, and drive us around like slaves.
We have stood this thing long enough, and we mean to show him that the
knife cuts both ways,” replied the fellow with the gruffest voice.

“I don’t see it. I haven’t any doubt Waddie has imposed upon you; but I
think he has used me as badly as he ever did any other fellow. I don’t
believe in this sort of thing.”

“I never will do it again, Wolf, if you will save me this time,”
pleaded poor Waddie, in piteous tones.

“Well, it’s none of your business, Wolf Penniman, and you can leave,”
added the speaker.

“I think you had better let Waddie go this time. I’ll go bail for him,
if you will,” I continued good-naturedly, for I was not disposed to
provoke a conflict with the ruffians.

“Not if we know it! We have watched too long to catch him to let him
go now,” replied the gruff-toned ruffian, emerging from the bushes,
followed by his companions.

They halted between Waddie and me, and I tried to make out who they
were; but they were so effectually disguised that all my scrutiny was
baffled. I have since come to the conclusion that I had never been
acquainted with them, and so far as I know, no one ever found out who
they were. I resorted to the most persuasive rhetoric in my power to
induce the boys to forego their purpose; but they were obdurate and
inflexible. I tried to give them a Sunday-school lesson, and they
laughed at me. I endeavored to point out to them the consequences of
the act, assuring them that Colonel Wimpleton would leave no measure
untried to discover and punish them.

“We’ll risk all that,” replied the leading ruffian impatiently. “Now,
dry up, Wolf Penniman. We don’t wish any harm to you; but you shall not
spoil this game. Come, fellows, bring up the tar-kettle.”

The wretch went up to Waddie, whose hands were tied behind him, and
began to pull off his shirt. The unhappy victim uttered the most
piercing screams, and struggled like a madman to break away from the
tree.

“This thing has gone far enough,” I interposed indignantly, as a couple
of the rascals took the tar-kettle from the fire, and began to carry it
towards the tree.

“What are you going to do about it?” blustered the chief of the party.

“I am going to stop it,” I replied smartly.

“I guess not! If you don’t take yourself off, we’ll give you a coat of
the same color.”

I rushed up to the two boys who were carrying the kettle, and began to
demonstrate pretty freely with the boat-hook. They placed their burden
on the ground, and stood by to defend it. I hooked into it with my
weapon, and upset it.




CHAPTER VI. THE BATTLE WITH BLOWS.


The gruff-voiced conspirator rushed furiously toward me, and I
retreated a few paces. The two in charge of the tar-kettle picked it
up, and saved a portion of its contents. My heavy assailant was roused
to a high pitch of anger by the opposition I made to his plans, and
seemed to be disposed to proceed to extremities. He had picked up a
club, and continued to advance. Once or twice he made a pass at me with
his weapon, but I dodged the blow.

I was not angry, and I was cool. I saw that my foe was clumsy, if he
was stout. As he threw his heavy cow-hide boots about, he reminded me
of an elephant dancing a hornpipe. I saw two or three chances to hit
him, but I refrained from doing so, for I did not want a broken head
upon my conscience.

“Come here, Martin!” shouted he to one of his fellow-conspirators; and
this was the only name I heard used during the whole of the strife.

“Why don’t you knock him?” demanded the person called, as he sprang
forward to assist the big fellow.

I continued to retreat, and intended to fall back upon my boat for
protection; but the second assailant got in behind me, and presently
I saw more stars than I was anxious to behold in broad daylight. I
concluded that I was a fool to indulge in squeamishness on such an
occasion, when my head was in danger of being “caved in” by the heavy
blows of the rascals. Besides, the rap I had received had a tendency
to rouse my ire; in fact, it did rouse it; and at the next convenient
opportunity, I struck the big fellow a smart blow on the head.
Evidently it hit him in a tender place, for he dropped flat upon the
ground.

I was alarmed at this catastrophe, and fortunately the second assailant
was affected in the same way. I had secured a position where I could
not be attacked in the rear, and having disposed of the heaviest of my
foes, I turned upon the other. The fate of his companion was a salutary
lesson to him, and he retired to the side of the fallen champion.

But the big fellow was not so badly damaged as I had feared. He was
not even stunned, and soon sprang to his feet, rubbing his head, and
endeavoring to collect his scattered ideas. My own head felt as though
a cannon-ball had dropped upon it. I took off my cap and examined the
place with my hand. There was a big “bump” on the side of my head to
certify the damage I had received.

“Come up here, fellows!” shouted the leader in the enterprise, with a
savage oath, when he had in some measure recovered from the shock of
the blow I had given him.

They arranged their disguises anew, and held a consultation. I could
not hear what they said, but I knew that I was the subject of their
remarks. Each of them then provided himself with a club, and I realized
that they intended to make an organized attack upon me. If they
captured me, my chances of being tarred and feathered were about as
good as those of Waddie. It would have been the most prudent thing I
could do to retire from the field, and permit the party to carry out
their vicious purpose upon the little magnate of Centreport. Though I
had been “punished” as much as I cared for, I felt so much interest in
the affair that I was not willing to leave.

I saw two of the party, who had not before been engaged, start at a
smart run, with the evident intention of getting between me and the
water. I broke into a run myself, and made for the boat. Jumping on
board, I pushed her off far enough to save me from molestation. But
then I observed that the other two ruffians had not engaged in the
pursuit. The two who had done so stationed themselves on the bank of
the lake, and appeared to be so well satisfied that I began to think
something was wrong.

Suddenly it flashed upon my mind that the big fellow intended to outwit
me; that he and his companion would do the dirty job while my two
guards kept me at a safe distance. Having put my hand to the plow, I
had too much pride, if not principle, to permit myself to be outflanked
in this manner. As the case now stood, the big ruffian had won the
battle. I was disgusted with myself, and hastened to retrieve the
mistake I had made. I pushed the boat in toward the shore, and my two
sentinels stepped down to meet me.

“That’s a fine boat you have, Wolf,” said one of them good-naturedly,
as he leaped on the half-deck.

The other one followed him, and I deemed it wise to pick up my
boat-hook.

“She is fine enough,” I replied.

“Will you let us look at her?” said the speaker, winking at the other.

What did he wink for? That was what I wanted to know. Why were they
so good-natured? It was not a very difficult problem, after all. Why
should they not be good-natured, if they could keep me where I was
while their companions did their vile work upon Waddie? They were
smart--they were!

“Certainly you may look at her, if you like,” I replied very
pleasantly, all of a sudden, for I intended to be as smart as I could.

“They say you are a first-rate fellow, Wolf,” continued the one who had
first stepped on board, as he jumped down into the standing-room, where
I was.

“Oh, I am!”

“I can’t see why you stick up for such a mean boy as Waddie Wimpleton.”

“I don’t stick up for him. I only like to see a fellow have fair play,”
I replied, seating myself, as though I had nothing more to desire or
hope for.

“He don’t give anybody fair play. This is about the best boat I ever
saw,” the speaker added, as he looked into the little cabin.

“She is first-rate,” I answered carelessly.

“Cabin, beds, carpet, stove.”

“Yes, and there is a chance to set a table there,” I went on, after the
second guard had contrived to push the boat away from the shore, as he
supposed, without attracting my attention. “Go in, if you like, and I
will show you how we dine on board of the _Belle_.”

I spoke with becoming enthusiasm about the boat and her fixtures, and
I think my guests believed that they had drawn away my attention from
Waddie. At any rate, the first speaker went into the cabin, and, at my
suggestion, the second one followed him.

“Now, do you see that board which is turned up against the mast?” I
proceeded, as I pointed to the table.

“Yes, I see it.”

“Well, just turn the button and let it down.”

It stuck pretty tight, as I knew it would, and both of them took hold
to lower the board. While they were thus engaged, I drew the slide and
banged the doors to, before they suspected what I was doing. Slipping
in the padlock, I locked it, and while my guards were turning the table
in the cabin, I performed the same office outside. They were prisoners,
and I felt that I might reasonably expect to find them where I had left
them. They might damage the cabin of the _Belle_, but that was all they
could do.

I hauled the boat in, and, as I leaped on shore, I heard another
piercing scream from Waddie, which assured me that the tragedy had
been renewed. I leaped on the land, and, with the boat-hook still in
my hand, hastened to the scene of active operations. As I approached
the spot I saw the two ruffians tearing Waddie’s clothes from his
back, in readiness to apply the tar-swab. The wretched victim screamed
piteously. I saw that I had no time to trifle with the affair. I
decided to be the aggressor this time. I rushed furiously at the big
fellow whom I had hit before. He did not see me till I was within fifty
feet of him. He had laid aside his club, and I “pitched in.” I dealt
him a heavy blow on the side of his head, and he retreated to the place
where he had left his weapon. I made at the other one then; but the
terrors of the boat-hook were too much for him, and he fled to obtain
his club.

While they were falling back upon their ammunition I took my knife from
my pocket, and, rushing up to the tree, cut the cord which confined
Waddie. He was free; but his hands were still tied together. I told him
to follow me; and, gaining a moment’s time, I released his hands.

“I’ll never forget this, Wolf,” said he. “I will not, as true as I
live.”

“We haven’t got out of the scrape yet. Pick up that stick, and keep
close to me. We must fight it out now.”

“I’ll fight as long as I can stand,” he replied resolutely.

The fellow with the gruff voice swore like a pirate when he saw that
Waddie was free, and he and his companion immediately gave chase to
us. I had no longer any reason to fight, and I was not disposed to do
so, except in self-defense; but I was determined to bring off Waddie
unharmed, whatever happened.

We made a détour toward my boat, closely pursued by the two ruffians,
now foaming with rage at the failure of their wicked scheme. We outran
them, and soon had placed a sufficient distance between us and them to
justify a halt. But we were not a great way from the boat.

“What has become of the other two fellows?” asked Waddie, puffing under
the exhaustion of his hard run.

“They are safe,” I replied; and involuntarily I put my hand into my
pocket, to search for the key of the padlock on the cabin slide.

“Where are they?”

“In my boat, locked up in the cabin.”

I continued to fumble in my pockets for the key; but I could not find
it, and the conclusion was forced upon me that I had stupidly left
it in the lock. If my two guards could not release themselves, this
service could easily be performed by their associates. I had made a
bad mistake; though, after all, the blunder would only save them the
trouble of breaking the lock, and otherwise damaging the boat.

I found that keeping still was the best method of baffling our
pursuers, since they had evidently lost sight of us. I heard their
voices, but the sound receded, and it was plain that they were moving
toward the lake.




CHAPTER VII. WADDIE AND I.


As nearly as I could judge in our place of concealment, the big fellow,
who was the leading spirit of the conspirators, had been careful to
keep the inside line of retreat from the tar-kettle to the boat.
Of course, he expected us to retire in that direction; but when we
distanced him in the chase he had moved directly to the water-side,
while I had swept around in a much larger circle. As soon as he lost
sight of us in the thick undergrowth, which had only been cut away on a
few acres composing the picnic-grounds, he had made the shortest line
for the boats.

“Where is your boat, Wolf?” asked Waddie, who was actually trembling
with apprehension, though I could not blame him for being alarmed,
since the villains were still on his track, and still intent upon
subjecting him to the degrading ordeal.

“It lies about a quarter of a mile below yours, at the wharf,” I
replied to my trembling companion.

“What shall we do?”

“We must keep still for a little while, till we see a good chance to
reach the boat.”

“I am cold, Wolf,” said he.

Perhaps he offered this as an explanation of his shaking condition;
but, although the weather was pleasant for the season, it was still
chilly enough to render thick clothing quite comfortable. Above his
boots the poor fellow had on nothing but his shirt and pants, and the
former had been torn half-off by the wretches who persecuted him. I
took off the heavy jacket I wore, and gave it to him.

“You will be cold yourself, Wolf,” said he, with a degree of
consideration of which I did not believe him capable.

“No; I can get along very well. Put it on.”

“Thank you, Wolf; you are very kind.”

Those were amazing words to be uttered by him to me! But his father had
been even more gentle, and had apparently forgotten all about me in a
few days. He put on my coat, which fitted him very well, and I buttoned
it up to the throat for him. He declared that it “felt good”; and I
have no doubt it did, for the driving wind upon his bare shoulders
must have been anything but comfortable.

“Do you know any of those fellows?” asked Waddie.

“I do not. I heard the big fellow call one of the others Martin, but I
haven’t the least idea who any of them are. I suppose they belong on
your side of the lake, and I haven’t seen much of the fellows there
lately,” I replied.

“Do you think they belong to our institute?”

“I don’t believe they do. They are coarser, rougher fellows than the
students on either side.”

“I should like to know who they are,” added Waddie, compressing his
lips and shaking his head. “But whoever they are, if they don’t have to
suffer for this, you may set me down for a ninny.”

“I think we had better get out of the scrape before we say much about
punishing them. I am inclined to believe that big fellow will suffer
from a sore head for a few weeks to come. I cracked him hard with this
boat-hook.”

“Perhaps this sore head will enable us to find out who he is.”

“I hope so; but these fellows have been pretty cunning. I heard one of
them say they had been on the watch for you several weeks.”

“I was a fool to come ashore here.”

“I don’t know why you were, unless you suspected something of this
kind.”

“I hadn’t the remotest suspicion of anything. I don’t know of any
reason why they should wish to treat me in this manner. I haven’t done
anything to them.”

“But you don’t know who they are.”

“Well, I haven’t done anything to any fellows.”

“Are you sure of that, Waddie?”

“I don’t remember anything.”

“You don’t?” And it seemed very strange to me that he had forgotten the
facts related to me by Dick Bayard.

“No, I don’t. Do you think I would lie about it?” retorted he, in a
tone and manner which seemed quite natural to me.

“Didn’t you and some one else cowhide one of the town fellows some time
ago?”

“Oh, that was four or five weeks ago. It couldn’t have anything to do
with that.”

“Perhaps it may. These fellows say they have been on the lookout for
you for weeks.”

“I had forgotten about that,” said he, looking meditative, and, I
thought, chagrined. “But those fellows insulted me, especially a young
cub, who threatened to thrash me. I gave him a dose the next day, which
I think he will remember when he wants to be impudent to me.”

“Precisely so! And I am only surprised that you did not remember it
yourself when you were tied to that tree with the tar-kettle before
you.”

“Do you really believe that fellow is at the bottom of this affair?”
asked Waddie, knitting his brows.

“I don’t know anything about it.”

“But that fellow was smaller than any of these.”

“Of course, I can give you no information, for I don’t know any of
them. But we will talk over that matter another time. You stay where
you are, Waddie, and I will take an observation.”

I crept for some distance through the cow-path in the underbrush,
till I heard voices near the lake. I could not see the ruffians, but
I judged by the sound that they were moving toward the wharf where
Waddie’s boat was moored. I proceeded still farther toward the lake,
and, emerging from the bushes, I discovered all four of the wretches on
the wharf. The two whom I had imprisoned in the cabin of the _Belle_
had broken out, as I had anticipated, or, possibly, the other two had
released them. I feared that they had ruined, or badly damaged, my
boat, and I was very anxious about her.

I hastened back to the spot where I had left Waddie, and conducted
him to a position near the open woods. I did not think it expedient
to exhibit ourselves yet, and we waited an hour or more in our
concealment. I could not see Waddie’s persecutors. They did not attempt
any further pursuit. Probably they supposed we had started on foot for
Centreport, and, doubtless, they deemed it proper to consider what
steps were necessary to insure their own safety, for they knew very
well that Colonel Wimpleton would turn out the whole town in pursuit of
them as soon as he heard of the attempted outrage.

“By the great horn spoon!” exclaimed Waddie, who was becoming very
impatient after an hour’s anxious waiting, “there they are, going off
in my boat!”

“Good!” I replied. “They couldn’t do anything that would suit me
better; that is, if they have not sunk or smashed the _Belle_.”

This thought gave me a severe pang, and I almost groaned as I thought
of my beautiful craft ruined by these malignant wretches.

“No matter if they have, Wolf. My father will pay for making her as
good as ever she was,” said Waddie.

“But I am engaged to go up the lake in her with a party on Monday
morning.”

“We will pay all damages, so that you shall not lose a penny. But I’ll
bet you won’t want to go up the lake next week in the _Belle_,” he
added warmly.

I did not care to follow up the significance of this remark, for I had
not much confidence in the fair-weather promises of the Wimpletons. I
judged that he intended to do some great thing for me. Perhaps he only
flattered himself that he meant to be magnanimous and generous. He was
as impulsive in his loves as in his hates; and, though he adhered to
the latter with extraordinary tenacity, the former cooled off very
suddenly.

“Do you suppose those fellows know how to handle a boat?” I continued,
as I saw Waddie’s sloop go out into the lake under full sail.

“I hope not,” replied he, with energy. “But I wish they were in your
boat, instead of mine, for then they would go to the bottom if they
upset her.”

“I hope they won’t be drowned,” I added, as the boat heeled over so
that her gunwale went under.

“I don’t care if they are.”

“Be reasonable, Waddie.”

“I am reasonable. What do you suppose I care for the villains, after
what they have done to me?”

“Love your enemies, Waddie. Return good for evil.”

“It’s easy enough to talk; but I don’t believe much in that sort of
stuff.”

“It isn’t stuff, Waddie. If I had acted on your principle, you would
have been tarred and feathered before this time.”

“You won’t lose anything by what you have done, Wolf,” replied he
rather sheepishly.

“I don’t expect to make anything by it.”

“You will.”

“That isn’t the idea. If I had acted on your plan, I should have taken
hold and helped those fellows impose upon you. I don’t ask or expect
anything for what I have done. I have made enemies of these chaps,
whoever they are, for the sake of one who drove me out of Centreport,
hit me a crack in the face the other day, and told me squarely that he
hated me.”

“You wait, Wolf, and see what you will see.”

“I don’t ask anything, and I won’t take anything for what I have done.
I only want you to have ideas a little different about other people.”

“It’s no use of talking; you may be a saint, but I can’t be one,” said
Waddie impatiently. “I think those fellows will swamp the boat; but she
has air-tanks, and can’t sink.”

“We needn’t stay here any longer. You can go up-town in my boat. I
think we may as well be ready to pick those fellows up when they upset.”

“I will try to find my clothes,” said Waddie, as he moved off toward
the tar-kettle.

I went down to my boat. She lay just as I had left her, except that the
two glass ports in the trunk of the cabin were broken. The prisoners
had evidently attempted to reach the lock by thrusting their arms
through these apertures. Whether they succeeded or not, or whether
they were released by their companions outside, I do not know. Beyond
the breaking of the glass, no injury had been done to the _Belle_. The
padlock and key were both there. I hoisted my reefed mainsail, and
stood up to the wharf, toward which Waddie was now walking, with his
coat and vest on his arm.




CHAPTER VIII. THE WRECK OF THE “HIGHFLYER.”


When I ran the _Belle_ out of the little inlet in which I had moored
her I found that the wind had been increasing, and the waves were
really quite savage. My first solicitude was in regard to the ruffians
in Waddie’s boat; for, whatever they deserved in the way of punishment,
it was terrible to think of their being engulfed in the raging waters.
I soon obtained a view of them. They had lowered the sail, and were
tossing madly about on the waves. Of course, the craft was no longer
under control, if it had been since the rogues embarked in her, and she
appeared to be drifting rapidly toward the land.

The line of the shore in this part of the lake extended about northwest
and southeast. Without knowing anything at all about a boat, the
conspirators against the peace and dignity of Waddie Wimpleton had
run out from the wharf, keeping the wind on the beam. Doubtless, the
furious movements of the boat astonished them. It must have shaken
them up to a degree they had never before experienced; but they were
reckless fellows, and perhaps believed that this was the ordinary
behavior of a boat when the breeze was fresh.

They were not far from right in this respect; but they ought to have
known that a boat needs skilful handling at such a time. They had
continued on their course about half-way across the lake. They did not
seem to know enough to ease off the sheet when the heavy flaws came, or
to “touch her up” with the helm. When it came so heavy that they could
stand it no longer, they lowered the sail. A boat without any sail on,
even in a blow, is as bad as an unruly horse without a bridle. She
must have steerageway, or she cannot be controlled. She was now in the
trough of the sea, rolling helplessly in the billows--now dipping in
the water on one side, and now on the other.

When I ran in at the pier Waddie jumped on board of the _Belle_. He had
put on his coat and vest, but still complained that he was very cold.
I had some old coats in my cabin, which I offered to him, and, though
they were not fashionable garments, he was glad to avail himself of my
wardrobe.

“It blows heavier than ever, Waddie,” I said, while he was putting on
one of the ragged and weather-stained overcoats.

“If you can’t run up to town, I can go on shore and walk up,” he
replied, glancing at the angry lake.

“Oh, I can go it, well enough; but I was thinking of those fellows out
there.”

“I shall not waste much fine feeling upon them, you had better believe!”

“They have lowered the sail, and are rolling about there like
mud-turtles on a log. The boat must be full of water.”

“She will not sink, and as long as they hold on they will be safe
enough.”

“I am not so sure of that, Waddie. They are drifting like mad toward
the rocky point above Gulfport. If they run your boat on those sharp
rocks, it will be all day with them.”

“I don’t care for the boat.”

“You don’t want her smashed--do you?”

“I don’t care if she is. She has been beaten, and, if she should be
smashed, my father would order another.”

I did not care so much about the boat as I did about the fellows in
her. I did not wish to have even one of them drowned before my eyes. I
put on my coat, and then pushed off from the wharf. In a few moments we
were in the thickest of it, and even the _Belle_ curtsied so low as to
take in the “drink” over her lee rail. But I eased her off so that she
went along very well, as any boat will when properly handled.

“They are hoisting sail,” said Waddie.

“So much the worse for them,” I replied.

“Have they reefed her?”

“I don’t think they know enough to do that.”

“They have! What are you going to do?”

“I am going to keep near enough to them to pull them out of the water
if they get overboard.”

“They are running right before the wind, toward the Gulfport point. I
think they have had sailing enough for one day. Let her out a little,
Wolf; perhaps we can ascertain who they are.”

“I think not. They will keep their faces covered up while you are
around; for being found out would be almost as bad as being drowned to
them.”

The ruffians, probably seeing the sail on the _Belle_ reefed, found
that they could do a similar thing with their own canvas. They had
fastened the reef-points in some manner, and were running before the
gale toward the rocky point. I did not understand what they intended
to do; but it did not occur to me that they would be stupid enough to
attempt a landing on a lee shore in such a sea as raged at the time. If
they had any common sense, it ought to have taught them better.

I let out the sheet, and gave chase. The _Belle_ leaped like a
race-horse over the waves, tossing the spray in bucketfuls over Waddie
and myself. I hoped to overhaul the _Highflyer_ in season to warn the
ruffians of their danger. But they were half a mile to leeward of me
when the chase commenced, for I did not think of pursuing them till
they began to hoist the sail. I thought it would be time enough to help
them when they called for assistance, as I was not quite sure they
would not still subject my companion to further indignities if they
could catch him on shore.

I was gaining rapidly on the _Highflyer_, under her clumsy management,
and if there had been half a mile farther to run I should have come
up with her. The rascals in charge of her appeared to be profiting
by their experience. They were daring fellows, as their intentions
toward Waddie at the grove fully demonstrated, and they did not
exhibit any signs of fear, though I could well believe they were not
a little anxious about the future. Probably they had discovered that
the _Highflyer_ was a life-boat, for her copper air-tanks were in
plain sight in her forward cuddy. To my mind it was a pity that such
bold fellows should be such consummate rascals, for so I must call any
persons who would tar and feather a boy, under any circumstances.

“What do you suppose they mean to do, Wolf?” asked Waddie, beginning to
be much excited by the situation.

“I think they intended to go up to Centreport in your boat, but found
they could not go against the wind. They didn’t know how to beat her
up. I believe they intend to get ashore now as quick as they can.”

“Do they mean to land on those rocks ahead of them?”

“I should judge that they did. They are not far from them, either,” I
replied.

“I may as well say good-by to the _Highflyer_, then.”

“I shouldn’t wonder if you might say good-by to some of those fellows,
also,” I added, very anxious for the result.

Waddie said no more, and I did not then. Both of us were bracing our
nerves for the catastrophe, which could not be postponed many minutes
longer.

“Boat, ahoy!” I shouted, with all the voice I could command.

“What do you want?” replied the gruff-toned fellow, who, in the boat as
on the shore, was the leading spirit.

“Keep off the shore, or you will all be drowned!” I shouted.

“No, you don’t!” answered back the chief conspirator.

This reply, being interpreted, evidently signified that the speaker did
not mean to be caught or run down, or in any other way vanquished by
his pursuer.

“By the great horn spoon!” exclaimed Waddie, clinging to the side of
the boat, “she is in for it!”

“Keep off!” I shouted furiously; and by this time the _Belle_ was
within five rods of the _Highflyer_.

“Keep off yourself!” responded the gruff-toned fellow; and I noticed
they had all covered their faces again.

“You will lose your lives if you don’t keep off!” I added, with all the
energy I could throw into the words.

I found it necessary, at this exciting point of the chase, to sheer off
myself, lest a treacherous rock should knock a hole in the _Belle_. At
the same instant the _Highflyer_ rose on a wave, and then went down
on the sharp rocks, with so much force that her bottom must have been
completely stove in. I heard the crash, and held my breath with anxiety
for the fate of the boys on board. They dropped down into the water,
which I could now see rose within her nearly to the gunwales, and held
on for life.

The receding wave carried the wreck back, and another lifted it up and
jammed it down upon the jagged rocks with tremendous force. It was
built of light material, and could not resist such a pounding for a
single instant. Her mast went by the board, and she actually broke into
pieces. The next wave that swept over her forced two of the four boys
out of her, and pitched them into the water while the other two held on
to the fragments.

“That’s rough!” gasped Waddie.

“I hope they will get out of it; but we can’t do anything for them,” I
replied, with my heart in my throat.

I saw the two fellows who had been pitched out of the boat making their
way over the rocks to the dry land. One of them limped, as though he
had been severely injured. By this time all of them had lost their
masks, or uncovered their faces; but they were too far from me to be
identified. The _Belle_ was now standing away from the scene of the
thrilling event close-hauled; but we watched the two boys on the wreck,
still fearful that the fierce waves might swallow them up. The billows
continued to drive the fragments nearer to the shore, till we saw the
boys rush through the water and make their escape.

“That is the end of the _Highflyer_,” said Waddie. I was thankful that
it was not also the end of her late crew.




CHAPTER IX. BY THE GREAT HORN SPOON!


By this time the wind had increased to a tempest, and never before had
I seen such waves and such spray on Lake Ucayga. I should not have been
willing to believe that any sea that ever raged on our beautiful sheet
of water could make such a complete wreck of a boat, even with the aid
of the rocks, as that we had just witnessed. The _Highflyer_ was as
thoroughly broken up as though the work had been accomplished with axes
and hammers, and the pieces were driven far up on the rocky shore.

The persecutors of Waddie had escaped; but they had probably been
as effectually frightened as any four boys ever were before; and
they were not likely to go into the business of navigation again
on their own account very soon. They deserved a severe punishment;
but, on the whole, I was rather glad that we had not been able to
identify them, for the vengeance of Waddie and his father was also so
disproportionate to the offense that, in the present instance, nothing
less than absolute ruin of the ruffians, and even of their families and
friends, would appease the wrath of the injured magnate and his son.

The _Belle_ behaved remarkably well. I was aware of her stiff and
stanch character before I bought her; but she more than realized my
expectations. She was as buoyant as a feather, and lifted her head to
the seas as gracefully as though the tempest was her natural element.
She took in torrents of spray, but she did not ship any water. Her mast
bent like a reed in the blast, and, of course, I had to favor her when
the heavy gusts struck her. Both Waddie and myself were wet to the
skin, and both of us were shivering with the cold. It was not exactly
pleasant, therefore, however exciting it was.

I ran the _Belle_ out into the lake, and then, at a single stretch,
made the pier at the picnic grove, the point from which we had started
before. I was afraid I should lose my mast, and I was not disposed to
cripple the boat merely to see what she could do. Behind the pier we
had tolerably smooth water, and I decided to put another reef in the
mainsail.

“What are you going to do now, Wolf?” asked Waddie, his teeth
chattering as he spoke.

“I’m going to put in one more reef, for I don’t like to risk my mast,”
I replied.

“Are you going to try to run down in the teeth of this blow?” he
inquired.

“I must get home myself, and get the boat home.”

“I thought you ran in here to wait for better weather.”

“No; only to put in another reef.”

“But I don’t know that I can quite stand this. I am not afraid of
anything, but I am half-frozen.”

“I’ll warm you very soon, and you may go home as comfortably as though
you were in the cabin of the _Ucayga_,” I replied. “We are in no
particular hurry, but I don’t think we shall see any better weather
to-day.”

I went into the cabin, and lighted the fire in the little stove, which
was filled with kindling-wood, ready for the match. I rigged the little
copper funnel on the forward deck, and in that wind the draft was so
strong that the fire roared merrily in a few moments. Having secured
the mainsail, I joined Waddie in the cabin, closing the doors behind
me. In less than half an hour we had a temperature of at least ninety
degrees, and both of us were thawed out. We took off our coats, and
placed them near the stove. We were as warm as toast, and though I
did not announce the fact, I believed that the _Belle_ was a great
institution.

“I had something to eat on board of the _Highflyer_,” said Waddie; “but
my dinner has gone to destruction with the boat.”

“I have some provisions on board, such as they are; but I suppose they
will not suit one who sits at your father’s table.”

“Anything will suit me, Wolf. I am not dainty when I’m hungry; and I am
as hungry as a bear.”

“Well, I’m as hungry as a wolf.”

“I suppose you are!” laughed Waddie, who appeared to be conscious that
I had made a pun, though I did not regard it as a very savage one.

I took from the locker under the berth on which I sat a basket of
“provender,” which my mother had put up for me. For common sort of
people, I thought we lived very well, and I was not ashamed to produce
the contents of my basket, even in the presence of the little magnate
of Centreport. I had some slices of cold ham, some bread and butter,
and an apple-pie. If the crust of the latter was a little coarse and
dark-colored, it was still tender and healthful. I lowered the table
and arranged the food upon it, using the dishes which constituted a
portion of the boat’s furniture.

Waddie did me the honor to say that my dinner was quite as good, if not
better, than that which he had lost in the _Highflyer_, and he soon
proved his sincerity by eating a quantity which rather astonished me,
liberal feeder as I was. I am sure I relished the meal all the more
because he enjoyed it so much. I should have added hot coffee to the
feast, only we had no milk, and both of us agreed that coffee would not
be coffee without this important addition.

The dinner was finished. I cleared away the dishes and restored the
cabin to its usual order. By this time we were quite dry, for an
atmosphere of from ninety to a hundred makes sharp warfare upon moist
garments. The heat was beginning to be oppressive to me, and I opened
the slide a little way, to admit the fresh air so abundant that day
on the lake. I took my coat and resumed my seat on the berth, for the
cabin was not high enough to permit a standing-posture. Waddie sat
opposite to me. He had been in deep thought for some minutes, while I
was making my preparations to breast the storm again.

I had put on my coat, and was buttoning it close around my throat, to
keep out the cold and the water, when my companion startled me by a
demonstration as strange in him as it would have been in the Emperor
Napoleon, if I had been admitted to the sacred precincts of the
Tuileries. Suddenly he sprang forward and reached out his right hand
to me across the table. I looked at it in bewildered astonishment, and
with a suspicion that Waddie had suddenly become insane.

“Will you take my hand, Wolf?” said he, in the mildest of tones.

“Certainly I will, if you desire it;” and I clasped the offered member.

“Wolf, I have been your enemy,” said he, still retaining my hand. “I
have hated you; I have used you meanly; I have despised you. Will you
forgive me?”

“With all my heart, Waddie,” I replied, pressing his hand. “I never
laid up anything against you.”

“Are we friends?” he asked earnestly.

“We are.”

“By the great horn spoon, Wolf, I shall stick to you now like a
brother! Oh, I’m in earnest, Wolf. You needn’t smile at it!”

“I think you are sincere.”

“I know I am. It is not altogether because you got me out of a
bad scrape to-day that I say all this, but because you behaved so
handsomely after all my meanness toward you. I don’t understand it yet,
Wolf. I don’t see how you could do it; but I know it is so, and that’s
enough for me. I wish I could be like you.”

“I hope you will be better than I am,” I modestly replied.

“I don’t ask to be any better than you are. All the fellows like you--I
mean all the decent fellows. My father is rich, and yours is poor; but
that don’t seem to make any difference. The fellows on the other side
would have mobbed Tommy Toppleton for your sake if he hadn’t broken his
leg. I don’t see why they should like you so much better than Tommy.
Our fellows don’t seem to like me much better, though I don’t see why
they shouldn’t.”

“Perhaps we will talk that over another time,” I answered, not deeming
it prudent to be entirely candid with him.

“I’m going to stick to you, Wolf, till the end of time, and I’m going
to take your advice, too, if you will give it to me.”

“I don’t know that my advice will be worth much; but if I can be of any
service to you, Waddie, I shall be very glad. I think we must get under
way now.”

“What shall I do?”

“Nothing at all. Stay in the cabin and make yourself as comfortable as
possible. I can handle the _Belle_ without any assistance.”

“But I want to talk with you some more.”

“Well, we shall have time enough when we get down to Centreport.”

“I feel as though you had been the best friend I ever had in the
world, and, by the great horn spoon! I am going to be such a friend as
you never had before.”

“I wouldn’t make any rash promises, Waddie,” I answered, smiling at his
enthusiasm. “You had better sleep on it.”

“I don’t want to sleep on it. I have been your enemy, but now I am
your friend. If it hadn’t been for me, you would have been running the
_Ucayga_ to-day.”

“I don’t find any fault, though such a berth as that would have suited
me first-rate,” I continued, laughing; but I confess I had but little
confidence in my new-made friend’s zeal in my favor.

“It is not too late, Wolf, for my father and I are disgusted with the
management of the boat, and it is high time something should be done.”

“We will talk it over by and by,” I added, leaving the cabin.

I put another reef into the mainsail, cast off the painter, which I
had made fast to the pier, and pushed off. In a moment the _Belle_
was rolling and pitching in the heavy surges of the lake. With two
reefs in her mainsail she would not lie very close to the wind; but I
ran her across the lake, intending to work along under the lee of the
west shore, partially sheltered by the high bank from the fury of the
tempest.




CHAPTER X. WADDIE IN A NEW CHARACTER.


Even as close-hauled as she could be under the double-reefed mainsail,
the _Belle_ flew on her course; but under this short sail she did
not labor so heavily as before, and I had no fear but that she would
make tolerably good weather of it. As I had anticipated, I found
comparatively smooth water under the lee of the west shore; but, with
two reefs in the mainsail, I found it impossible to lie close enough to
the wind to avoid running out into the heavy sea.

I decided to make a sheltered cove, and turn out the last reef I had
put in, satisfied that I could keep close enough under this sail to
avoid the savage sea in the middle of the lake. Waddie was reclining
upon one of the berths, as comfortable as though he had been in his
father’s house, while I was again shivering with the cold and wet to
the skin. I supposed he was working up his good resolutions. I never
had much hope of Waddie, his temper was so bad and his impulses so
violent. On the other hand, it had always seemed to me that a very
little improvement would make a good fellow of Tommy Toppleton. It
was, therefore, almost incredible that the former should be the first
to proclaim his good resolutions, and express a desire to mend his
character.

Waddie’s impulses, whether good or evil, appeared to be equally
violent. It is true I had never before heard him whisper a doubt that
he was not, even morally, the best young man in the vicinity; but
his demonstration seemed to be rather too enthusiastic to endure for
more than a day or two, or a week at the most. Tommy Toppleton had
never, I confidently believe, soared to the elevation of making good
resolutions. If he had, there would have been hope of him.

My companion in the boat was engaged in deep and earnest thought. I
should not have known any better what he was thinking about if he had
told me in so many words. In the face of his earnestness, therefore, I
could not help cherishing a slight hope that he would do better--it was
not a strong hope. I determined to encourage him as much as I could,
and in a gentle way make such suggestions to him from time to time as
his case seemed to require.

After all, it was not so surprising that Waddie should have his eyes
opened by the exciting events of that day. He had been thoroughly
convinced that he was not omnipotent; that there was such a thing as
retribution. Probably he was also aware of the extent of the dislike
with which the Wimpletonians regarded him. He was no fool, and ordinary
perception would have enabled him to comprehend his relations with
his associates at the institute. I think he ought to have known
all that Dick Bayard had told me; and possibly he was suspicious
that his battalion and the stockholders of his steamboat company
intended to mutiny against him. At any rate, he was conscious of his
own unpopularity; he had acknowledged as much to me. He was in deep
thought. I did not disturb him.

I turned out the reef, and Waddie still devoted himself to his
meditations. The _Belle_ filled away again, and in the shelter of the
shore went along quite easily. The change in the motion of the boat
seemed to attract the attention of my passenger, and he opened the
slide, to see what was going on.

“The wind has gone down, hasn’t it, Wolf?” said he.

“No; the sea is just as heavy out in the middle of the lake as ever. We
are under the lee of the shore now.”

“You seem to be quite comfortable. I think I will come out, for I want
to talk with you.”

“It is pretty dry now. You will find some more old coats under the port
berth.”

Waddie presently came out of the cabin, enveloped in an old overcoat
which my father had worn out. He appeared to have something on his
mind, of which he was anxious to discharge himself. He took a seat by
my side; but, though the _Belle_ was going along tolerably well for
such a day, he did not speak for some time. Aware of his impulsive
nature, I rather expected to be appointed engineer or captain of
the _Ucayga_; for, as I have said before, he was the president of
the steamboat company, though his movements were more effectually
controlled than his rival on the other side of the lake.

“Wolf, I know you don’t like me very well,” said he, at last, and with
something like a troubled look on his face.

“Well, I can’t say that your conduct toward me has been such as to make
me love you very much. I won’t be a hypocrite, Waddie,” I replied.

“But what made you interfere when those fellows were abusing me?” he
asked, looking me full in the face. “If you don’t like me, why did you
risk a broken head to save me? That’s what I want to know.”

“I don’t know that I can explain my conduct very well,” I answered,
laughing. “I have always tried to think kindly of those who wanted to
injure me. I thought that those fellows were doing an abominably mean
and wicked thing, and that it was my duty to interfere. That’s really
all I know about it.”

“I can’t understand it. I was in hopes that, after all I have done and
said, you really did like me.”

“I don’t dislike you.”

“No matter; of course, I can’t blame you for not liking me; but I want
to begin anew. When I gave you my hand, and wanted to be friends, I was
in real earnest. I want you to be my friend, and stand by me.”

“Stand by you!” I exclaimed. “I can’t stand by you unless you are in
the right. I wouldn’t stand by you after you, with another, had caught
a small boy and licked him.”

Waddie bit his lips, and I thought he was going to get mad, for what I
had said was a home-thrust.

“I was wrong in that, Wolf,” said he, with a struggle, which was
creditable to him, and which raised him very much in my estimation.

“You were, indeed; and that scrape was the father of the one you got
into to-day.”

“I know it; and I am afraid there are other scrapes in store for me.
The institute fellows and the members of our battalion are down upon
me; so is the steamboat company.”

“Do you wish me to tell you just what I think, Waddie?” I asked.

“I certainly do.”

“Even if it is not pleasant?”

“Yes; say on.”

“If I were in your place, Waddie, I would be the most popular fellow
in the whole region round about us. I would have every fellow like me,
and stand by me,” I continued earnestly, as the boat approached the
Narrows.

“Well, I have tried to be.”

“Have you, indeed!” I replied, laughing in spite of myself at the
absurdity of the proposition, though it is very likely Waddie believed
what he said, strange as it may seem.

“I have been president of the steamboat company, major of the
battalion; and I don’t see why the fellows don’t like me.”

“I will tell you candidly why they do not. Because you think more of
yourself than you do of any other fellow. You are selfish and exacting.
You think every fellow ought to yield to you; and you are tyrannical
and overbearing toward them. That’s what’s the matter, though I
shouldn’t have said so if you had not told me to do it.”

“Do you think I am so bad as that?” said he, looking moody and solemn,
rather than angry, as I supposed he would be.

“I have told you just what I think. Look at it for yourself a moment.
Go back to the time when you blowed up that canal-boat. Do you
think you treated the skipper and his daughter just right? Then you
threatened to blow out my brains if I did not do as you told me.”

“Don’t say any more about that. I am willing to own that I was wrong,”
pleaded he.

“Well, come down to a later day. At the auction you commanded me not
to bid on the _Belle_. You pitched into me, tooth and nail, because I
did bid. You forbade my going on the _Ucayga_, just as Tommy Toppleton
ordered me not to ride on his railroad, though I paid my fare in both
instances. I don’t rake up these things for any other purpose than
to prove what I said. You can’t expect any fellow to like you if you
conduct yourself in such a manner.”

“What shall I do?”

“Do anything but what you have done. Respect the wishes and feelings,
and especially the rights, of others, whether they be poor or rich. I
happen to know myself that the institute fellows are down upon you,
and that they don’t mean to stand your domineering and tyranny much
longer.”

“What are they going to do?” he asked curiously.

“I’m sure I don’t know; only that they mean mutiny, in general terms.
It is just the same on our side of the lake. The Toppletonians intend
to pull Tommy down from his high places. At the last election of
officers they did elect another president, but he declined to serve,
though he was sorry enough afterward that he did not stand.”

“You talk plainly, Wolf,” continued Waddie seriously. “I don’t think
I’m quite so hard a fellow as you make me out to be.”

“I tell you just what I think, and just what others think.”

“You are my friend now--are you not, Wolf?”

“I will do everything I can for you; and if you will do what is right I
will stand by you to the end of time.”

“By the great horn spoon, I will do right if I know how! You shall tell
me what to do.”

“I don’t want to tell you what to do. If you mean right, you can’t very
well go wrong.”

“You will advise me, won’t you?”

“Certainly I will, if you wish me to do so.”

“What would you do now if you were in my place?”

The arrival of the _Belle_ at Centreport pier prevented me from
answering this question, though I kept thinking of it while I was
securing the boat to enable Waddie to go on shore. But he was not
willing to part with me, and insisted so strongly that I should go up
to “his house” with him that I could not refuse. He clung to me like a
brother, and I was confident that he intended then to mend his manners,
whether he held out in the resolution or not. I lowered my sail, and
walked up the street with him.

I went to his house, and the visit was productive of the most important
results.




CHAPTER XI. A STEAMBOAT STRIKE.


While I was walking with Waddie from the pier to his father’s house,
I deemed it necessary to ask myself whether or not I was “toadying”
to the son of the rich man of Centreport. I should have despised
myself if I had believed such was the case. Both my father and myself
were determined to be independent, in the true sense of the word. We
had discussed the meaning of the word, and reached the conclusion
that genuine independence was not impudence, a desire to provoke a
quarrel, or anything of that kind. We agreed that the term was often
misunderstood and abused.

But true independence was a genuine self-respect, which would not
allow its possessor to cringe before the mighty, or to sacrifice honor
and integrity for the sake of money or position. Doubtless both of us
had been guilty, to some extent, of this subserviency; but we were
determined not to fall below our standard again. Colonel Wimpleton
and Major Toppleton had money and influence; but we had skill and
labor. We could do without them quite as well as they could do without
us. Avoiding all conspiracies, all impudence, and all intentions to
quarrel, we meant to maintain our own self-respect. If neither of the
great men wanted us, we could go elsewhere, and “paddle our own canoe”
to our own satisfaction.

I may say that my father and I had made a kind of compact of this
nature; and when I found myself, to my great astonishment, and almost
to my chagrin, to be hand and glove with Waddie, I began to suspect
that I had been sacrificing myself to the mammon of influence. But a
little reflection assured me I was not guilty of the charge. I had
saved my new friend from a disgraceful and humiliating ordeal only
from a sense of duty, and not with the intention of “currying favor”
with him. I had told him, fairly and squarely, what I thought of him,
and what others thought of him. As I considered what I had said to him
I found no occasion to reproach myself. On the contrary, so far as
appearances went, I had converted Waddie from the error of his ways.

My companion was gentle and kind to me. He acted like an altered
person--using no harsh or bullying language and appearing to be only
anxious to ascertain what was right, in order that he might do it. I
followed him into his father’s library, where a cheerful fire blazed in
the grate, and we seated ourselves before it. I had hardly ever been in
this room before, though I had frequently visited the major’s library.

“Wolf, just as the _Belle_ came up to the pier I asked what you would
do if you were in my place,” said Waddie, after we had comfortably
disposed ourselves in the cushioned armchairs. “You did not answer me.”

“You ask me hard questions, Waddie,” I replied, laughing. “I do know
what I should do if I were in your place, but I do not like to set
myself up as your adviser.”

“I ask you to do it. I will thank you for it.”

“I will tell you what I think, and then you can do as you like. I can
give you advice; but you are not obliged to follow it, you know.”

“Don’t you be so afraid to speak, Wolf!” added Waddie rather
impatiently.

“Well, then, in the first place, I should make my peace with all the
fellows, whether in the institute or not.”

“I’m going to do that; but the thing of it is, how to do it.”

“You have been riding a high horse. You are major, president, and I
don’t know what not. You have used those positions to tyrannize over
and bully even your best friends.”

“Well?” said he, as I paused to note the effect of these words upon him.

“You must put yourself in a humble position, to begin with.”

“I’ll do it!” exclaimed he, with enthusiasm. “I’ll do anything you say,
if it is to go down on my knees before the ragged little rowdies in the
streets of Centreport.”

“I shall not advise you to do anything of that kind; but, under the
circumstances, I should resign the positions of major and president.”

“Resign them!”

“Yes; I would show the fellows first that I am as willing to obey as I
am to command. The fellows mean mutiny, both in the steamboat company
and in the battalion.”

“I’ll do it. What next?” he asked, rubbing his hands, in humble
imitation of his magnificent father, when he was pleased.

“I should take my place in the battalion as a private, do my duty
faithfully, and obey my officers in every respect. As a stockholder
in the company, I should behave modestly, and not attempt to carry my
points by bullying, or any other unfair practises. In any and every
capacity, if I had an opportunity to do a kindness to either friend or
enemy, I should do it, even at some considerable personal sacrifice.
But I don’t wish to burden you with my opinions.”

“I thought you would tell me to go to the Sunday-school, or something
of that sort.”

“I certainly recommend that; but I was speaking only of your relations
with the boys in the vicinity. If you have a good heart, you will do
your duty.”

“There will be a meeting of the steamboat company next week. I will
have my resignation ready. Oh, I am in earnest,” protested Waddie.

“Perhaps you had better consult your father. I don’t want you to act
blindly on my advice. He may not think it best for you to do as I say.”

“I know he won’t; and for that reason I shall not say anything to him.
I’m not going to say anything against my father; but I know what’s
what.”

“But you may endanger his interests in the steamer,” I suggested.

“No; the directors can’t do anything without his approval. There is no
danger. Besides, my father is as cross as a bear lately. The railroad
on the other side is beating us every day. He has been quarreling with
the captain and engineer for a week.”

“Is it their fault that the boat is beaten?” I inquired.

“Father thinks it is, in part. The engineer won’t drive the boat, and
the captain is a slow coach.”

Waddie had scarcely made his explanation before the library door
opened, and Colonel Wimpleton bolted into the room. He appeared to be
much excited, threw down his hat, and seemed to be disposed to smash
things. He did not see me at first; but when he discovered my presence
he came up to me, and, to my great astonishment, offered me his hand.
He glanced curiously at Waddie, as he realized the fact that his son
was on good terms with me.

“I’m glad to see you, Wolf,” said he, as he grasped my hand. “I suppose
you thought I had forgotten you; but I have not. A Wimpleton never
forgets a friendly act, nor forgives a malicious one. What’s up,
Waddie?” he continued, as he turned to his son.

“Wolf and I are the best friends in the world, father,” replied Waddie.
“Ain’t we, Wolf?”

“That’s so, just now; and I hope it will always continue,” I replied.

“Oh, it will!” persisted Waddie.

“It’s rather odd, to say the least,” added the colonel, with an
incredulous stare at both of us.

“I’ll tell you how it happened,” said Waddie.

And he related the history of the events of the morning, and gave me
all the credit, and rather more, I thought, than I deserved.

“That was handsome of you, Wolf, after all that has happened. But who
were these rascals? I will make an end of them!”

“We didn’t know who they were; and we couldn’t find out.”

“I shall find out!”

Perhaps he would; but at that moment the captain and engineer of the
_Ucayga_ were announced, and the colonel began to look as savage as
when he entered the room. The servant was told to admit them.

“The villains!” gasped the great man. “They were half an hour behind
time this morning, though they did not wait for the up-lake boats.”

“Perhaps they were not to blame, father,” suggested Waddie mildly.

“Not to blame! Do you think I don’t know?”

The two men entered the library, hat in hand. They were brothers,
which, perhaps, is the only explanation which can be offered of the
fact that they adhered to each other in the present difficulty.

“Colonel Wimpleton, we came up to say that we have concluded not to
run in the _Ucayga_ any longer,” said the captain, with considerable
deference, though there was a kind of dogged firmness in his tones and
in his looks.

“Well, sir!” snapped the colonel.

“We have done our best, but we can’t please you.”

“You can’t please me by being half an hour behind time every day.”

“It isn’t my fault,” protested the captain. “And I won’t be insulted,
as I have been to-day before all my passengers. You may get a new
captain and a new engineer as soon as you please.”

“None of your impudence!”

“My impudence is no worse than yours. You won’t find any men who can do
better than we have.”

“If I can’t, I will sink the boat in the middle of the lake.”

“We don’t want to talk; our time is out.”

“Don’t you mean to run the trip this afternoon?” demanded the colonel,
whose face suddenly flushed, as he saw the trick of his employees.

“No, sir! We do not,” replied the captain, a gleam of satisfaction on
his face, as he realized that he was punishing the great man.

“Don’t say a word, father. Let them go,” whispered Waddie.

“You will find that we are not slaves,” added the captain.

Colonel Wimpleton looked at his watch. It wanted only half an hour of
the advertised time to start the boat for Ucayga. He looked at Waddie,
looked at me, and then at the two men, who doubtless expected, by the
means they had chosen, to bring him down from “the high horse.” I
watched the great man with intense interest; and perhaps I was as much
excited as any person in the room.




CHAPTER XII. CAPTAIN WOLF PENNIMAN.


My impression now is that neither the captain nor the engineer really
intended to throw up his situation. While I could not, and did not,
blame them for refusing to submit to the savage abuse of Colonel
Wimpleton, I did not think it was quite fair to spring this trap upon
their employer within thirty minutes of the time the boat was to start.
But the colonel was not altogether unreasonable in his complaints. The
men did not use every exertion to be on time. There was fault on both
sides.

The captain had been instructed not to lose his connection, even if he
always went without the up-lake passengers. On this day, as I learned,
he had failed to connect, though he had not waited for the Hitaca boat.
Passengers were dissatisfied, and the new steamer was rapidly losing
the favor of the traveling public.

Colonel Wimpleton, as he stood before the fire in his library,
realized that these men were trying to punish him. The whispered words
of Waddie evidently made their impression upon him. He curbed his wrath
and was silent for a moment.

“Let them go, father,” said Waddie.

He did let them go, and gave them an order on his agent for their wages.

“Will the boat make her trip this afternoon?” asked the captain, who
did not seem to be pleased with the result of the interview.

“That’s my affair,” replied the colonel.

“We are going on board for our things. We have steam up, and, if she is
not going, my brother will have the fires raked down.”

“He needn’t trouble himself. You have an order for your money. Good
afternoon.”

The two men took this hint and left.

“By the great horn spoon!” shouted Waddie, springing to his feet.

“What’s to be done?” queried the colonel, glancing at me.

“Wolf, you are the captain of the _Ucayga_ from this moment!” roared
Waddie, slapping me furiously on the back. “This is my last act as
president of the steamboat company! Do you approve it, father?”

“It is what I wanted before. But we have only half an hour--less than
that,” replied the great man, looking at his watch again.

“We can make time if we are fifteen minutes late. Do you accept, Wolf?”

“I do; with many thanks.”

“But the engineer?” said the colonel anxiously.

“Send over for my father with all possible haste. I will go down and
look out for the engine until he comes,” I replied.

“I will go over myself in your boat, Wolf. In this breeze I can cross
in five minutes,” added Waddie, seizing his hat and rushing out of the
house.

“I will go with you to the steamer, Wolf,” said Colonel Wimpleton.

All this was so sudden that I had not time to realize the situation. As
I walked down to the wharf with the magnate of Centreport, I recalled
some mysterious words of Waddie, which seemed now to have a point. He
had told me that I should not care to go up the lake the next week
with the fishing-party. Certainly he could not have known that the
event which had just occurred would open the way for me; but he was
doubtless aware that the moment he said the word the captain of the
_Ucayga_ would be discharged. He knew that his father was dissatisfied
with the management of the boat, and I suppose, as soon as he had
determined to be my friend, he meant to give me the position.

“Wolf, I have intended this place for you ever since you used me so
well in the yacht,” said the colonel, as we walked down the street.
“Waddie would not consent. He hated you like a demon. But you have
conquered him, and that is more than I could ever do.”

I wanted to tell him that good was all-powerful against evil; but the
remark looked egotistical to me, and I suppressed it.

“I hope you don’t expect too much of me,” I replied.

“No; but I expect a good deal of you. Everybody on the lake knows you,
and you are smart. We must beat that railroad somehow or other.”

“I think we can, sir, if we have any kind of fair play. But Major
Toppleton’s boats are always ten or fifteen minutes behind time.”

“No matter if they are. If you leave at half-past two, you can always
make time, if you don’t waste your minutes, as our captain often has
done. Wolf, I believe he has been bribed by Toppleton to lose his
connections.”

“I don’t know about that.”

“He is a Hitaca man, and has no sympathy with our side of the lake.”

Perhaps the colonel was right. When I looked the matter over afterward
I was satisfied that there was some ground for the suspicion. We
reached the wharf, and went on board of the _Ucayga_. We arrived
at just the right time, for both the captain and the engineer were
stirring up ill feeling among the crew of the boat; and the latter
was at work on the engine, with the evident intention of spoiling the
afternoon trip. Colonel Wimpleton drove them ashore without indulging
in any unnecessary gentleness. I directed the fireman to fill up the
furnaces, and overhauled the machinery. While I was thus engaged my
father arrived. He was conducted to the engine-room by Waddie.

“Mr. Penniman, allow me to introduce you to Captain Penniman, master
of the steamer _Ucayga_,” said the president of the steamboat company,
with a degree of good-nature of which I had never before supposed him
capable.

“Captain Penniman, I am happy to make your acquaintance,” laughed my
father, as he grasped my hand and gave it a significant pressure. “I
think our family is getting up in the world, for we have now the honor
to boast that we have a steamboat captain in it.”

“A very great honor, no doubt; but it will depend somewhat upon the
manner in which he discharges his duties,” I replied, as good-naturedly
as either of my companions. “Father, we are on duty now, and we must be
on time.”

I looked at my watch. It still wanted ten minutes of half-past two.
Waddie had been so fortunate as to find my father on the wharf, and had
not been delayed a moment in procuring his services. While at work on
the engine I had been making a close calculation. It was necessary to
land our passengers on the wharf at Ucayga by four o’clock, which gave
me an hour and a half to make the distance--twenty miles--including the
stay in Ruoara, generally of fifteen minutes.

My predecessor, when he left the wharf in Centreport at half-past eight
in the forenoon, or half-past two in the afternoon, was pretty sure to
miss his connection; but he had gone over twenty-one miles, while I
intended to save more than a mile, equivalent to five minutes of time,
in the passage. I had thought over this matter before, and though my
appointment had been sudden, I was not unprepared for my difficult and
delicate task.

“Father, great things are expected of us,” said I, as Waddie went out
of the engine-room, to witness the arrival of the old _Ruoara_, which
was just then coming in at the other side of the wharf.

“I trust we shall not disappoint them; but I hope you know what you are
about,” replied he, casting an anxious glance at me.

“I do, father; I am just as confident as though I had been running
this boat for a year. I want you to run her at the highest speed you
can with safety.”

“I will do it. I served my time on a steamer, and I am at home here.”

“Keep her moving lively; that’s all I want,” I replied, as I left the
engine-room and made my way to the hurricane-deck.

Colonel Wimpleton had employed a couple of “runners” properly to set
forth to the passengers who were going through the merits of his new
and splendid steamer. They were duly posted up in the change which had
just been made.

“Take the _Ucayga_, Captain Wolf Penniman!” shouted these worthies.
“Sure connection! No failure this time! You have to change three times
by the railroad. The _Ucayga_, Captain Wolf Penniman, gentlemen!”

I was rather startled to hear my name thus freely used; but I was
surprised and gratified to see that not a few of the passengers came
on board of the steamer, though they were told by the railroad runners
that they would be sure to miss the train at Ucayga. I recognized not a
few of those whom I had known on the railroad, persons who had come to
the engine to talk with me, while waiting for the train or the boat.

“All aboard that’s going!” shouted the mate of the _Ucayga_.

“Haul in the planks, and cast off the fasts!” I called to the hands who
were in readiness to discharge this duty.

I confess that my bosom thrilled with strange emotions as I issued my
first order. But I felt quite at home, for I had run a great deal upon
the old boats, both in the engine-room and on deck. I had witnessed the
operation of making a landing so frequently that I was sure I could
do it without assistance, if necessary. I had measured the distance,
estimated the force of winds and currents, so many times that I had
thoroughly conquered the problem.

The _Ruoara_ backed out and headed for Middleport at quarter of three,
for the train started at three. Lewis Holgate still ran the locomotive,
and it had been found that he must start on time or he was sure to miss
his connection.

No regular pilots were employed on any of these steamers. The mate and
deck-hands took the wheel when required, and any of them were able
to make the landing. I told the former to take the wheel, for I had
decided to let him make the landings on this trip, rather than run even
the slightest risks by my own inexperience. The _Ucayga_ slipped out
from the wharf, and my father, true to his instructions, gave her full
steam.

“We are nearly ten minutes later than usual,” said Colonel Wimpleton,
shaking his head ominously, as we met on the forward deck.

“I pledge you my word, sir, that the boat shall be in Ucayga on time,”
I replied confidently.




CHAPTER XIII. IN THE WHEEL-HOUSE.


Colonel Wimpleton was evidently very anxious, as he had been from the
beginning, for the success of the steamer. On the present occasion,
when the _Ucayga_ was nearly ten minutes behind her ordinary time, I
grant that he had not much to hope for in the light of past experience;
but he did not know my plans, and I did not wish to startle him by
announcing them, fearful that, if I did so, he would not permit me to
carry them out. I repeated my promise to be on time, and though he was
far from satisfied, he could not do anything but wait the result.

My calculations were based upon the assured fact that the _Ucayga_
could easily make sixteen miles an hour. She had the reputation
of being a fast boat, and I intended that she should sustain her
reputation. Immense expense had been lavished upon her to give her
great speed, as well as to make her elegant and commodious. The
testimony was that she had repeatedly made her sixteen miles without
straining or undue crowding. This was all I asked of her. If she did
only what she was warranted to do, and what she had often accomplished,
I was safe.

I knew every tree and point on the west shore, along which the railroad
extended, and its exact distance from Middleport. I watched these
points, and consulted my watch frequently, to assure myself that the
boat was not falling behind my calculations. Her first four miles were
made inside of fifteen minutes, and I was not sure that my father was
not overdoing the matter; but he was a safe man, and I did not think it
necessary even to see him.

On the forward deck I attended to the arrangement of the baggage, so
as to make the stay at Ruoara as brief as possible. There were two
baggage-trucks, upon which I caused to be loaded all the freight,
luggage, and merchandise for Ruoara. I saw that the deck-hands were
rather disposed to snuff at a boy like me in command of the steamer;
but, in self-defense, I must add that I was nearly as tall as a man.
They were slow, and did not obey promptly. I thought I could, in part,
explain the failure of my predecessor to be on time. But it was of no
use for me to bluster at these men, though they were probably working
more leisurely than usual.

“Is everything going to suit you?” asked the colonel, as they were
approaching the wharf at Ruoara.

“Not quite, sir.”

“What’s the matter?” he demanded anxiously.

“The men work as though they were digging their own graves, which were
to be occupied as soon as finished.”

“Don’t they mind you?”

“They don’t refuse to mind, but they are slow. They think I’m only a
boy.”

“I’ll discharge every one of them!”

“Excuse me, sir; but don’t do that. I would rather add a quarter a
day to their wages,” I replied; for I happened to know that they were
greatly dissatisfied with their pay, and justly so, I thought. “Then,
if they don’t work, they shall be discharged.”

“Do so, if you think best,” replied the colonel promptly.

“And the mate?”

“Give him half a dollar a day, if that will help the matter.”

“I think they are not paid fair wages, or I would not have said a word.
As it is, I can make friends of them in this way.”

“Only beat the railroad, and I don’t care what it costs,” replied the
magnate impatiently.

“I will do it, sir.”

The plan was a stroke of policy on my part. As a boy I could do nothing
with these men by bullying and threatening them. By doing a good thing
for them, I could conquer them easily. I went up to the wheel-house as
the boat neared the wharf.

“Mr. Van Wolter, I will thank you to make this landing yourself,” said
I, addressing the mate, who had the wheel.

“I think I can do it,” replied he, with a broad grin, which was as much
as to say that I could not do it.

“So can I; but I prefer that you should do it this time,” I added.

“I suppose so!” he answered, with something like a sneer. “The mate, on
a dollar and a half a day, is always expected to do the captain’s work
on this boat.”

“I shall not ask you to do mine; but are you dissatisfied with your
wages?”

“I think the pay is mean.”

“So do I; and from to-day your wages shall be two dollars a day. I have
already spoken to Colonel Wimpleton about this matter, and he consents
to it.”

“Thank you; that’s handsome,” replied Van Wolter. “Excuse me for what I
said just now; I didn’t mean anything by it.”

“All right. I want you to have the boat ready to start in just seven
minutes after she stops at the wharf. And, to help the matter, you may
say to the hands that their pay shall be raised a quarter of a dollar
each per day. They must work lively when we make a landing.”

“You are a gentleman and a scholar, Captain Penniman, and what you need
most time will give you.”

“What’s that?”

“More years.”

He rang the bell, slowed the boat, and made as beautiful a landing as I
had ever seen in my life. The moment the steamer touched the wharf he
rushed down the ladder to the forward deck.

“Now, lively, my men!” shouted he, as he grasped the handles of one of
the trunks.

I saw him say something in a low tone to the hands. I knew what it was,
and the effect was electrical. They worked well, and tumbled in the
freight with an alacrity which must have astonished the staid citizens
of that place who had gathered on the wharf. It was Saturday, and there
was a large quantity of freight, and a great many passengers; but
within the seven minutes I had named the steamer was ready to be off. I
had saved half the time usually taken up in this landing, and there was
room to reduce it still more.

“You are late again,” said a gentleman to Colonel Wimpleton, as he came
on board. “We shall lose the train.”

“I hope not.”

“Oh, I know we shall. I think our people will have to go over to Grass
Springs and take the train.”

“We shall be on time, sir,” I ventured to say.

“I think we shall,” added the colonel.

“All aboard and all ashore!” shouted the mate, with a zeal born of the
half-dollar per day his pay had been increased.

I sprang up the ladder, and took my place in the wheel-house. It was
just ten minutes past three. I was five minutes inside of my own
calculations, but more than ten behind the steamer’s usual time. “The
tug of war” had come for me, for I intended to steer the boat myself,
and save from five to ten minutes of the boat’s ordinary time. I must
now explain, more particularly than I have before done, how this feat
was to be accomplished.

As I have before stated, the South Shoe lay off the town of Ruoara.
It was exactly due west from the wharf where the _Ucayga_ made her
landing. To the southward and westward of this island the water was
shallow, and more than a mile was added to the distance from Ruoara
to Ucayga by going round these shoals, or about five minutes to the
time. But this was not all. The boat was obliged to back, and actually
turn, before she could go ahead at full speed; and this operation would
consume all of five minutes more.

I have before spoken of the narrow passage between the Horse Shoe and
the Shooter, where the Toppletonians landed when they took possession
of the former island. This channel was very narrow, but it was also
very deep. I proposed to run the _Ucayga_ through this passage, and
thus save ten minutes on the trip. The steamer made her landing at the
end of the wharf, so that she did not have to turn; and all we had to
do, making the passage in the direction indicated, was to cast off the
fasts and go straight ahead.

Ruoara was built on a broad point of land which projected out into the
lake, so that the narrow channel lay due north of the end of the pier.
A straight line through the channel, as the needle points, would strike
the North Shoe; and this circumstance rendered the navigation beyond
the passage rather difficult. But I had thought of the problem so many
times that I was satisfied, knowing the channel as well as I did, that
I could take the steamer through without any trouble.

“Cast off your fasts and haul in the plank!” I shouted from my
position, as I grasped the wheel.

The zealous crew, inspired by the increase of their wages, promptly
obeyed the order. I rang the bell to go ahead, just as Van Wolter
entered the wheel-house. Perhaps my readers may not feel much
confidence in my skill, and it may be necessary for me to repeat
the statement that I had spent a great deal of time on board of the
steamers on the lake, most of it in the engine-room with Christy
Holgate, it is true, but not a little of it on deck and in the
wheel-house. I had often steered the boat. I had found the helmsman was
as willing to be relieved as my instructor, the engineer, had been. I
knew the wheel, and I knew the bells. I rang to go ahead, and gave the
wheel a sheer to port.

“You want to back her first, don’t you?” suggested Van Wolter, in a
very respectful tone.

“No; I’m going to show you what I can do now,” I replied, with a smile.

“But, captain, you will be aground in three minutes,” protested the
mate, laying his hand on the wheel.

“Let me alone! Don’t bother me now,” I replied rather sharply, as the
steamer gathered headway.

I snapped the bell again, to go ahead full speed, and away she buzzed
toward the narrow channel.

“I don’t know about this!” exclaimed Van Wolter.

“I do; don’t say a word.”

He did not; but in half a minute more Colonel Wimpleton and Waddie both
appeared at the door of the wheel-house, and rushed in, highly excited,
and evidently expecting to be smashed in a couple of minutes.

“Where are you going, Wolf?” demanded the colonel almost fiercely.

“To Ucayga, sir,” I replied.

“Stop her this instant!”

“Too late now, sir. I’m all right; I know what I’m about,” I answered.

The boat rushed into the narrow channel.




CHAPTER XIV. THE HORSE-SHOE CHANNEL.


Colonel Wimpleton, Waddie, and the mate all held their breath, as
though they expected to see the magnificent _Ucayga_ knocked in
splinters the next instant. She was going at full speed through the
narrow channel; but, if I had been underneath her, I could not have
told any better how many feet and inches there were between her keel
and the sands at the bottom of the channel. If the passage through this
narrow place was thrilling to others, it was more so to me, and I was
fully conscious of the responsibility that rested upon me.

If the steamer struck the ground, it would be ruin to me. My new-found
situation, and all the emoluments attached to it, would be lost. But I
felt that a failure to be on time at Ucayga would be hardly less fatal
to me. I had fought the battle faithfully for the Lake Shore Railroad,
when I was in the employ of the company, and had never missed a train.
I intended to be equally faithful and devoted to the steamboat
company. I knew what was expected of me, and I was determined that my
boat should always be on time.

Success was a duty. The first step toward a failure was to believe
in one. I had figured up my plan so carefully that I knew what could
be done, always providing that the steamer was up to her guaranty. I
was thrilled by the situation; but I was confident and determined. I
could not take my eye off the course for an instant to look at Colonel
Wimpleton and his son; but I could judge of their suspense and anxiety
by the breathless silence they maintained. If the _Ucayga_ took the
ground, I should hear from them then; and that would be as soon as I
cared to have the spell broken.

I had not yet reached the most difficult point of the navigation. If I
continued on my straight course, the steamer would strike on the North
Shoe, and the problem to be practically solved was whether the boat
could be turned about forty-five degrees without being swept upon the
shoals to the northward. She was a long vessel, and it required all
the philosophy and science I possessed to meet the question. When the
helm was put to starboard, the momentum of the steamer would tend to
throw her course outside of the arc of the circle she would describe
in turning. The faster she went the greater would be her momentum, or,
after she had begun to turn, her centrifugal force.

I had studied a great deal over this question since I visited Ruoara
to purchase the _Belle_, for I was convinced that this passage must be
open to the boat in order to enable her to compete with the railroad,
by saving at least ten minutes of precious time. I had studied it over
very carefully, with every possible allowance for wind and current.
I had chalked out diagrams of the channel on the ceiling-boards of
the _Belle_, and my policy was thoroughly defined in my own mind. The
channel between the Horse Shoe and the North Shoe was perhaps a hundred
and twenty feet wide--it did not vary twenty feet from this distance,
I knew. When the boat was within a hundred feet of the bend in the
channel, I rang to stop her.

“I thought you would have to back out,” said Colonel Wimpleton, drawing
a long breath, perhaps of relief to find that the magnificent craft was
not already high and dry on the shoals.

“I’m not going to back out, sir--by no means,” I replied, as I threw
the wheel over to starboard.

The _Ucayga_ surged ahead under the impetus she had attained, and
turned her bow to the west, with the shoal close aboard of her on
the port side. She minded her helm beautifully, and as soon as I had
brought the bow flagpole in range with the chimney of a certain cottage
on the west shore, I rang to go ahead. Righting the helm, I let her go
again at full speed. The allowance I had made for the centrifugal sweep
of the boat carried me clear of the shoals on the starboard hand; and,
though I had hugged the shoal on the port hand, the actual course of
the boat was very nearly in the middle of the channel. In a couple of
minutes more all danger had been passed.

“You may take the helm now, if you please, Mr. Van Wolter,” said I to
the mate.

“By the great horn spoon,” roared Waddie, “we are out of that scrape!”

“That was done as handsomely as ever I saw anything done in my life!”
exclaimed the mate, with a broad grin on his good-natured face.

“I don’t know about that, Wolf,” said the colonel, shaking his head,
while the relief which he felt was plain enough upon his face.

“You know that we have saved ten minutes by that operation, sir,” I
replied, looking at my watch. “It is seventeen minutes past three and
we have only nine miles more to make which can be done in thirty-five
minutes. This will bring us in at the wharf at seven minutes before
four. We shall have at least five minutes to spare. We should certainly
have been behind time if we had gone around the South Shoe.”

“But do you think it is safe to go through that narrow place, Wolf?”
asked the great man.

“I think I can take this boat through a thousand times without failing
once,” I answered, wiping the perspiration from my brow, for the
intense excitement of the passage, overlooked and criticized as I was
by the magnate and his son, had thrown me into a fever heat.

“If I had known what you intended to do, I would not have permitted it.”

“For that reason, sir, I did not tell you,” I replied, laughing.
“I want to say, sir, that I haven’t done this thing blindly and
recklessly.”

“That’s so!” exclaimed the mate, who understood the matter better than
any one present except myself.

“You said something to me a few weeks ago about taking command of this
boat, Colonel Wimpleton. Well, sir, I have studied up this subject, and
taken the shore bearings. I can give you the precise rule I followed.”

“I should like to hear it,” said the colonel, bestowing upon me a
cheerful smile of approbation.

“Yes, sir. When the pine tree on the Shooter ranges with the barn on
the east shore, stop her. Then, when the north point of the Shooter
ranges with an oak tree on the east shore, starboard the helm. When
the boat has turned so that the chimney of the cottage ranges with the
bow flagpole, the pilot sighting from the center of the wheel-house,
go ahead again. Then you are all right; and it can be done a thousand
times without a single failure if you follow the directions.”

“But why do you stop her?” asked the colonel curiously.

“So that, in turning, the tendency to sweep too far to starboard may be
counteracted in part. But after I have tried it a few times, I can go
through without stopping her.”

“You are a genius,” laughed the colonel. “I begin to hope that we shall
beat the railroad, after all.”

“We are sure of it every time we can leave Centreport at two-thirty.”

“The up-lake boats must get to Centreport as soon as that in order to
enable the train to be on time,” replied Colonel Wimpleton, rubbing his
hands as though he was master of the situation.

“I don’t think you are quite ready for Major Toppleton’s next step,” I
replied, rather amused at his want of forethought.

“What do you mean by his next step?”

“The one I should take myself if I were in his place.”

“What’s that?”

“I think we are beating him just now, sir; and, as soon as the major
finds out that we are getting ahead of him, he will make another move.
We are sure of the Centreport and Ruoara trade, as long as we are on
time. He can’t get that away from us. But we want our share of the
up-lake business.”

“Yes and we must have it,” added the great man impatiently.

“Major Toppleton has bought up the stock of the old line of boats,
and runs them to favor the railroad. The only possible motive he can
have for sending his boats to Centreport is for the accommodation of
passengers from Hitaca to that place. There are only a few of them. His
next step, then, will be to run his boats only to Middleport, so that
you shall not have an opportunity to catch a single through passenger.”

“That occurred to me,” replied the colonel.

If it had occurred to him, he had been singularly careless about
providing a remedy.

“It will be done just as soon as the major sees that we can make our
trip from Centreport to Ucayga in one hour and a half, including the
stop at Ruoara. I am satisfied you will see the posters announcing a
new arrangement within a week.

“I don’t see that I can help myself,” added the magnate, biting his
lips with vexation.

“Don’t you, sir?”

“No, I do not,” continued the colonel, opening his eyes.

“If you wish it, you can have the entire control of the travel on this
lake. After you have made your next move, Major Toppleton and the
railroad will be nowhere.”

“I don’t understand you, Wolf.”

“You must build the mate to this steamer as soon as possible.”

“That’s rather a costly experiment,” mused the great man.

“But it will pay, for you will have the entire travel on the lake, with
the exception of the three towns on the railroad. The through travel
pays the bills, and you can have all that. Those old boats make only
ten miles an hour, and it takes them three hours, including stops, to
come from Hitaca to Centreport. The _Ucayga_ would make the distance in
two. Your line can leave the head of the lake an hour later than the
old line, and get to Ucayga in three hours and a half, while it will
take the old line four hours and a quarter.”

“You are right, Wolf!” exclaimed the colonel. “I’ll build another boat
at once, and call her the _Hitaca_. Let me see you to-night, when you
get in, and we will talk it over again.”

The _Ucayga_ was approaching the railroad wharf. The Lightning Express
train was just coming in sight, at least ten minutes behind time. When
my boat touched the wharf it was just eight minutes of four.




CHAPTER XV. A DECIDED VICTORY.


The up-lake boat had arrived at Centreport rather later than usual.
Certainly the _Ucayga_ had left her wharf a full ten minutes behind her
ordinary time. The steamer had had even a less favorable chance than
before, and, under her former management, she must have been fifteen or
twenty minutes behind time. I had saved at least five minutes of the
stay at Ruoara, and ten more by going through the Horse-Shoe Channel.

The two trains which met at Ucayga were due at five minutes of four.
They were seldom more than five minutes behind time, and as they were
both obliged to make connections, they could not wait many minutes
for either boat or cars. “On Time,” therefore, meant something; and
it was an inexpressible pleasure to me that I had complied with the
conditions. Boat stock would go up after this feat had been performed
a few times, especially if the Lightning Express was, as on the present
occasion, ten minutes late.

The steamer from Hitaca had arrived at Centreport at about half-past
two. She had left for Middleport as soon as she could take in and
discharge her freight; but she must have been five minutes late for
the express train. Lewis Holgate had probably wasted five minutes
more. When the _Ucayga_ was made fast at the wharf, the train had
just reached the ferry on the other side of the river--the outlet of
the lake. The trains east and west were on time, and by four o’clock
all the passengers who were going in them were in their seats. The
ferry-boat had not yet started. The conductors stamped their feet, and
looked at their watches every half-minute. To wait for the Lightning
Express passengers would add ten minutes more to the time to be made up
in running about twenty-five miles.

As the boat on the other side did not start, the conductors decided
not to wait any longer. The bells rang, and the two trains puffed, and
snorted, and went on their way. I have no doubt there were many hard
words used by the people on board of the ferry-boat, as they saw these
trains start. If Major Toppleton was on board, I had no doubt he used
some big words, for he was not above the infirmity of doing so when
irritated.

Steamer stock went up, and railroad stock went down. In a fair
competition, we had beaten the Lightning Express. I was satisfied that
this calamity to the railroad, under the circumstances, would cost
Lewis Holgate his situation; for the major, and even Tommy, would be
indignant at the result. I was confident that what we had done this
time could always be done, for we had made our quick time against a
strong head-wind.

“We have done it, Wolf!” exclaimed Waddie, as he came up to me, with a
familiar slap on the back, after the trains left.

“Yes; and we have done it under rather unfavorable circumstances,” I
replied, quite as pleased as he was with the result.

“No matter, so long as we have done it. If we can only keep doing it I
shall be satisfied.”

“We can; as long as we can leave Centreport at half-past eight in the
morning, and half-past two in the afternoon, I will guarantee to land
the passengers here at five minutes before ten and five minutes before
four. Of course some accident may happen once or twice a year, but the
rule shall be without any ordinary exception.”

“I wish we could compete with them going the other way,” said Waddie
anxiously.

“I wish we could; but I don’t think that will be practicable until we
have another boat. With one more steamer, we can have it all our own
way,” I replied.

“Can’t we do anything, Wolf?”

“If the up-lake boats will be ten or fifteen minutes late in leaving
Centreport, we may; but we can’t promise to land passengers there in
season to continue their trip by the next boat. You must not promise
anything which you are not sure of performing.”

“I wish we could do something,” added Waddie. “I would give anything to
beat the railroad both ways.”

“We can mend the matter; but I don’t think we can always be sure of
connecting with the Hitaca boat. Let us see. Our time-table now is:

  Leave Ucayga          4.15.
  Arrive at Ruoara      5.00.
  Leave Ruoara          5.15.
  Arrive at Centreport  5.45.

We can improve this, I think,” said I, writing on a card the places and
times as I stated them.

  “Leave Ucayga          4.00.
   Arrive at Ruoara      4.45.
   Leave Ruoara          4.55.
   Arrive at Centreport  5.25.

That is twenty minutes better than we do now.”

“But the Hitaca boat is advertised to leave Centreport at 5.15,”
interposed Waddie, looking over my figures.

“She is advertised to do it, but lately she has been regularly ten or
fifteen minutes behind time,” I replied. “To-day she will be nearer
half an hour.”

“Try it on, Wolf,” said Waddie, with enthusiasm.

“I will; but you must not go before your advertised hours.”

“That will make no difference. We are advertised to go on the arrival
of the boats and trains.”

“Then what are we waiting for?” I replied. “All aboard!” I called to
Van Wolter, the mate.

My zealous assistant shouted the usual warnings, and passengers on the
wharf, who were waiting for the ferry-boat, were invited to come on
board. Some of them accepted the assurance of Waddie that we should
connect with the Hitaca boat at Centreport, and took passage with us.
Just as the _Middleport_, with her indignant passengers, approached the
wharf, the _Ucayga_ backed out, and commenced her trip up the lake.

“You appear to be in a hurry, Wolf?” said Colonel Wimpleton, taking a
seat with me in the wheel-house, where Van Wolter had the helm.

I showed him the card on which I had written out the time I proposed to
make.

“We can leave Ucayga at four o’clock as well as quarter of an hour
later,” I added. “The Lightning Express cannot land a passenger in
Centreport in a minute less than an hour and a quarter. We can make our
sailing-time in just that space. If we can save five or ten minutes
of our stay at Ruoara, we need not be more than five or ten minutes
behind this time in reaching Centreport.”

“Do as you think best, Wolf,” replied Colonel Wimpleton, with the most
friendly smile I had ever seen on his face.

“We shall get to Centreport first to-day, without a doubt.”

We discussed the matter for a while, but we were satisfied that nothing
more than a temporary advantage could be gained until we had another
steamer. Before the _Ucayga_ reached the islands I took a walk through
the boat. Among the passengers I met quite a number whom I had known
on the Lightning Express, and was very kindly congratulated upon
my advancement. Some of them laughed at the idea of a boy like me
commanding such a steamer; but I defended myself from the charge of
being a boy. I should soon be seventeen; my mustache was beginning to
develop itself, and I was only a few inches shorter than my father.
Younger fellows than I had done bigger things than to command a
lake steamer. I had shaved myself every week or fortnight for six
months, borrowing my father’s razor when he was away, and performing
the operation in the secrecy of my chamber, with the door bolted,
to prevent the possibility of an interruption, and the consequent
annoyance of being twitted.

I made a desperate resolve, after being “bothered” for my juvenility,
to purchase a razor and other implements, and shave myself every day,
so as to encourage the downy growth upon my upper lip and chin. I also
decided to have a frock-coat, and to wear a hat, in order still further
to obviate the objectionable circumstances of “the young captain of
the _Ucayga_ steamer.” I regarded it as rather malicious in people to
insist upon it that I was a boy. I was not a boy. I was at least a
young man, and I was doing a man’s work. They might as well call a man
of thirty a boy because he played baseball.

In my tour of inspection I called upon my father in the engine-room.
I had not seen him since the boat left Centreport. Like a faithful
engineer, he had looked only at the machinery before him, and not
troubled himself about other matters. He hardly knew anything of the
exciting events in which he had been a prominent actor.

“How goes it, Wolf?” he asked, as I sat down in his armchair.

“First-rate.”

“Have you quarreled with Waddie or the colonel yet?” he inquired,
laughing.

“No, sir, and am not likely to do so at present. I am not on the top of
the wave. We have beaten the Lightning Express down, and are going to
do the same thing up.”

“Don’t overdo the matter, and don’t promise more than you can perform.”

“I don’t intend to do so. I know just what I can do, and I’m going to
do it.”

“Don’t commit yourself to Waddie or his father, Wolf. Either of them
would kick you out of your high place as quickly as he put you into it.”

“I think everything is going well now, father. The colonel intends to
build another boat immediately, and by next spring nobody will trouble
the Lake Shore Railroad, except those who live upon the line.”

“Don’t be too confident.”

“I know it! I have been studying up this steamboat business ever since
I was discharged by Major Toppleton.”

“You are down on the major hard now,” said my father.

“No, I’m not. I don’t wish him any harm; but while I’m paid for serving
the steamboat company, I intend to serve it. I’ve nothing to do with
the great men’s quarrels; but I’m going to be on time, and do the best
thing I can for my employers. I’m going to put her through by daylight.”

By this time the steamer was approaching the Horse-Shoe Channel, and
I went up to the wheel-house. I had taken the bearings so as to pilot
the boat through in this direction as well as in the other. By the same
process, and with the same precautions, I steered the _Ucayga_ safely
through the narrow passage, and we reached the wharf at Ruoara about
three minutes inside of the time I had proposed, for the strong wind
helped us in going up the lake.




CHAPTER XVI. TOMMY TOPPLETON MOUNTED.


“On time!” exclaimed Waddie, as I came out of the wheel-house, after
the boat was secured at the wharf.

“Yes, and more too,” I replied. “We are ahead of the Lightning Express
this time.”

“I want to be reasonable, but I never felt so much like crowing as I
do to-day. By the great horn spoon, I think we have all been asleep
on this side of the lake since the _Ucayga_ commenced running,” added
Waddie, with enthusiasm.

Van Wolter was already moving the freight and baggage on shore; and his
zeal had not suffered a particle of diminution. He worked well, and did
not permit a single instant to be wasted. We had only two trucks, but
all the luggage and merchandise they could contain had been piled upon
them; and they held nearly all we had to be landed. I wanted two more
of these machines, for they could be loaded by the shore men before
the arrival of the boat. Then we need stay only long enough to wheel
the two trucks on board ashore and the two on the wharf to the deck. I
expected to reduce the delay to three or five minutes.

I stood on the hurricane-deck, by the wheel-house, where I could
overlook the operations of the mate and the deck-hands, and be in
readiness to start the boat the instant the last piece of freight was
on board. I was delighted with the zeal of the mate, and, I may add,
with his politeness and discretion. He did not break things, and he did
not tip over the passengers as they came on board. He did not yell like
a wild Indian, and say impudent things to gentlemen who incautiously
placed themselves in his way. I liked the man, notwithstanding his
contempt for me as a boy, manifested at our first meeting. Perhaps I
should not blame him for that; but when I had taken the boat through
the Horse-Shoe Channel, he had done me full justice, and I forgave him.
He was my friend, and I was very glad to have done a good thing for him
in causing his wages to be raised.

The other steamer would be ready the following spring, and I could not
help thinking that Van Wolter would make a first-rate captain for her.
At any rate, if he continued to do as well by me as he had thus far, I
was determined to speak a good word for him.

“Mr. President, I shall be obliged to ask the company for two more
trucks for this landing,” I continued, turning to Waddie.

“You shall have a hundred if you want them,” replied the little magnate.

“We want only two; and perhaps two more for Ucayga, so that we can get
rid of these long delays.”

“You shall have everything you want, Wolf. I don’t see why we can’t
beat the Lightning Express every day.”

“We can never do it when the train is on time; and I tell you Major
Toppleton is too smart to let things drag on the other side as they do
just now.”

“I don’t believe they can go through on time.”

“Yes, they can. The engineer who is running the dummy now will see that
the train is never behind time when they give him the place. I never
missed a connection while I was on the road.”

“Lewis Holgate is not you.”

“But the major will not let him ruin the enterprise much longer.”

“Pooh! what can the major do as long as Tom Toppleton chooses to keep
Lewis on the engine?”

“Well, Tommy won’t choose to keep him there.”

“I think he will.”

“But Major Toppleton has another string to his bow. Our cake will be
dough in a week or so at the most--just as soon as the major fully
understands the matter; and I think it won’t take him more than a week
to see through the millstone.”

“You mean to say that he will not let his boats come to Centreport.”

“Certainly not. Then you can’t get a single through passenger. That
is what we are coming to in a short time, unless we find some way to
counteract the major’s plan.”

“Well, can’t we find some way?” asked Waddie anxiously.

“Perhaps we can. I haven’t had time to think of the matter much,” I
replied, as Van Wolter ordered the men to cast off the fasts and haul
in the plank.

I went into the wheel-house, rang the bell, and the _Ucayga_ moved on.
I gave the helm to the mate as soon as he came up. Waddie went below to
talk with his father, to tell him, I suppose, that our victory was to
be but a transient one.

“How’s the time, Captain Penniman?” asked the mate.

“Five minutes of five,” I replied, consulting my watch, and thinking of
Grace Toppleton, as I always did when I saw it, for she had presented
it to me in behalf of the Toppletonians.

And I was at variance with them now! No, not with many of them; only
with Tommy and a few of his toadies. But I did not like to wear
the watch, which had been the gift of those on the other side, for
which Major Toppleton had probably paid the lion’s share, after the
disagreeable events which had occurred. The thought came to me that
I ought to return it to the donors; but this was rather a violent
alternative for saving my pride.

“We were not more than ten minutes at the Ruoara landing, then,” added
the mate.

“No; you have done admirably, Mr. Van Wolter, and I thank you for your
zeal.”

“Oh, that’s all right! I always mean to do my duty while I have any
sort of fair play,” answered the gratified man.

“We must do our duty whether we have fair play or not,” I added.
“That’s my motto.”

“Well, I don’t know about that.”

“Two wrongs don’t make a right. The safest, and indeed the only way for
us, is always to do our duty.”

“I rather think you are right, after all. We are waxing the Lightning
Express over there, this afternoon. That short cut through the
Horse-Shoe Channel did the business for us.”

“That’s so; and I’ve been thinking of it for a long time. I suppose if
I had mentioned it before I did it, I should have been laughed at.”

“That’s a fact. You have done a big thing to-day, young man; I beg your
pardon--Captain Penniman.”

“Oh, we don’t stand on any ceremony! We shall be good friends; and
while we stick together, we can accomplish any reasonable thing.”

“Didn’t I hear you and the colonel saying something about another boat
like this one?”

“Yes; the colonel intends to build another--to be called the
_Hitaca_--at once.”

“I suppose it is too soon to say anything yet; but I want the command
of that boat when she is built,” continued Van Wolter anxiously.

“I was thinking of that very thing myself; and, if you are always as
faithful as you have been to-day, I think you will deserve it. I shall
mention the matter to the colonel and Waddie as soon as I get a chance.”

“Thank you; thank you, captain. That’s very handsome of you; and you
shall never have any cause to complain of me,” he replied warmly.

“Of course, I can’t promise anything; but I will do what I can, if
everything is right,” I answered.

We discussed the former management of the boat, and I explained to him
my plans for the future. We were in perfect accord, and I was glad that
I had so soon removed all grounds for jealousy, and all tendencies to
pull in the opposite direction, on the part of my subordinate. We were
approaching Centreport. The train on the railroad, now ten minutes
behind time, was coming into Middleport, on the other side of the lake.
At twenty-five minutes past five we were fast to the wharf. The boat
going up the lake had not yet left the pier. To my surprise, I found we
had quite a number of up-lake passengers, who had taken the word of our
runners that we should be in time for the boat at Centreport. We had
kept the promise, but it would not always be safe to make it.

We arrived in season to enable Colonel Wimpleton to send for his
satchel, and when the steamer for Hitaca touched the wharf he went on
board. He was determined not to lose a day or an hour in laying down
the keel of the new steamer, and he was going up the lake to make
his contracts for this purpose. The boat started on her trip, and my
work for the day was finished. Everybody on board was in remarkably
good spirits. For the first time, really, the steamer had beaten the
Lightning Express; and we intended to “keep doing it” as long as the
achievement was possible. I gave the boat into the keeping of Van
Wolter, and went on shore. My father could not leave until he had put
the engine in order. As everybody’s wages had been raised, there was no
danger of a conspiracy against the new order of things.

Not until the excitement of the afternoon’s stirring work had subsided
did it occur to me that I was engaged to go up the lake on Monday with
a party in the _Belle_. Of course it would be impossible for me to keep
my engagement to the letter, though I intended to do so in spirit.
The long-desired opportunity of doing something for Tom Walton now
presented itself. My friend was a thorough and competent boatman, fully
my equal, if not my superior. His mother was poor and in ill-health,
so that she depended mainly upon him for her support. He was, in my
estimation, a splendid fellow; and his devotion to his mother, and his
constant self-sacrifice for her sake, won my regard and admiration.
I had long desired to give him a situation worthy his abilities and
character.

Embarking in the _Belle_, I crossed the lake. After mooring the boat,
I went directly to the house of Tom’s mother, and was fortunate enough
to find my friend at home. He lived in one of the smallest and meanest
dwellings in Middleport. I was determined to do a good thing for
him, and I thought, after the boat season was finished, I ought to
have influence enough, as the commander of the _Ucayga_, to procure
him a first-rate situation for the winter. He came out of the house,
and before I had time to open my business with him, the Toppleton
Battalion, which was out for drill, came round the corner, and we
suspended our conversation to see the parade.

Major Tommy Toppleton was at the head of the column. He had nearly
recovered from his broken leg; but he was not able to walk much yet,
and was mounted on a medium-sized pony. The moment he saw me, he halted
his battalion, and urged his steed almost upon me.

“You villain, Wolf Penniman!” said he, still urging on his pony, as
though he intended to crush me under the iron hoofs of the little
charger.

“Sha’n’t I hold your horse for you?” interposed Tom Walton, with his
inimitable good-nature, as he seized the bridle-rein of the animal.

“Let him alone!” roared Major Tommy, striking my friend a sharp blow
on the back with the flat of his sword.

I was indignant, and inclined to pull the bantam major from his horse;
but I remembered his broken leg, or perhaps I should have done so.




CHAPTER XVII. TOMMY TOPPLETON THREATENS.


Tom Walton always had a pleasant way of doing an unpleasant thing.
I suppose he thought Tommy Toppleton intended to ride over me, or
at least intimidate me by the movements of his high-spirited little
charger, and, as a friend, he considered it his duty to do something in
my defense. This was the reason why he asked if he should not hold the
little major’s horse.

I had hardly seen Tommy since he had broken his leg; but I had no
difficulty in believing that he hated me. He was haughty, tyrannical,
and overbearing, even to a greater degree, when incensed, than my
new-made friend Waddie Wimpleton. He seemed to think I had no business
to live, and move, and have my being, after I had ceased to be
serviceable to him. He wanted to crush me, and the demonstration of his
pony was only suggestive of what the rider really desired to do.

Tom Walton was a tough fellow, and not at all thin-skinned, in the
literal signification of the term. He did not mind the blow which Tommy
had given him; but, putting himself on the left of the horseman, and
out of the convenient reach of his weapon, he backed the pony out into
the middle of the street.

“Let him alone!” shouted the major, struggling to hit, and then to
punch, my friend with the sword.

“Oh, certainly! I’ll let him alone first-rate,” laughed Tom, as he
released the steed from his iron grasp.

“You puppy, you!” snapped Tommy, foaming with wrath that a plebeian,
like my companion, should venture to take hold of the bridle of his
pony. “How dare you touch my horse?”

“Well, I haven’t much pluck; but I didn’t want him to tread on Wolf’s
corns.”

“Wolf’s a rascal, and you’re another!”

“Then we are well matched,” chuckled Tom Walton.

“If I don’t clean you fellows out of this place, it will be because I
can’t!” snarled Tommy.

“What’s the matter, Major Toppleton?” I inquired, my indignation
entirely appeased by the pleasant manner in which my companion had
treated the case.

“Wolf, you are a traitor!” exclaimed Tommy, with emphasis.

“Well?”

“You are an adder, that bites your best friends!”

“I think you are an adder, major, for you are adding one hard word to
another,” laughed Tom Walton.

“Don’t give me any of your impudence!”

“Certainly not; I leave that to my betters.”

“Wolf, I only halted to tell you that Middleport will soon be too hot
to hold you.”

“What do you mean by that, Tommy?” I asked gently.

“You know what I mean, well enough. You are a traitor, and are willing
to bite the hand that feeds you.”

“I think not.”

“What have we done for you? Where did you get that watch and chain in
your pocket?”

“My friends on this side of the lake gave me the watch and chain.”

“Humph! Well, my father paid for it!”

“Then I shall take the liberty to return it to him,” I replied. “If
you will relieve me of it now, it is at your disposal.”

I took the watch from my pocket, detached the chain from my vest, and
offered it to him.

“I don’t want it. It only shows what a fellow you are. After all we
have done for you, Wolf, you go over on the other side, and do all you
can to injure us--to injure the Lake Shore Railroad.”

“Allow me to call your attention to the fact that you discharged me,” I
answered mildly. “I must work for a living, and when the president of
the steamboat company offers me a situation at three dollars a day, I
can’t afford to refuse it.”

“Can’t you!” sneered he. “Allow me to call your attention to the fact
that, after all we have done for you, on this side, you got up a row in
the car, and broke my leg.”

“You got up the row yourself, as you will remember, if you recall the
facts. You insisted upon putting two passengers out of the car after
they had paid their fare, and while they were behaving themselves in a
proper manner.”

“You thought you were going to rule the Lake Shore Railroad. You tried
to do it; and that was what made the row. Do you suppose I would submit
to your dictation? Do you think I had not the right to discharge an
employee of the road? I don’t see it.”

“Probably we shall not make much by discussing the matter here, though,
if you wish to do so, I will meet you for that purpose when and where
you please,” I replied.

“I’ll meet you on Monday forenoon, at ten o’clock,” said he suddenly
and maliciously.

“I am engaged then. Of course I mean any time when my business will
permit.”

“I thought you didn’t mean what you said,” added he, turning up his
nose and pursing out his lips. “I want to give you a fair warning. The
Wimpletons wouldn’t have you on the other side after you had turned
traitor to them. I don’t blame them; and we won’t have you on this side
after you have turned against us. If you mean to stay on this side of
the lake, you must have nothing to do with that steamer.”

“Don’t you think our family has a right to live on this side of the
lake?” I inquired.

“No matter whether you have or not. We won’t have you here,” replied
Tommy sharply.

“I think we shall stay as long as we think it best to do so. I will
return this watch to your father, and then I believe I shall not owe
him anything.”

“Didn’t my father save all the property you had when Wimpleton
foreclosed the mortgage?”

“He did; he was very kind to us then, and we shall always gratefully
remember all that he did for us, though he was not called upon to pay
out a single dollar on our account.”

“And for this you are doing your best to ruin the Lake Shore Railroad,
which cost my father two hundred thousand dollars! Deny that, if you
can!” stormed Tommy.

“I do deny it.”

“Are you not running that steamer on the other side?”

“I have that honor.”

“Hasn’t she beaten the Lightning Express-train twice to-day?”

“If she did, it was in fair and honorable competition. You discharged
me, and you are responsible for the consequences, not I.”

“What’s the use of talking to an ingrate, like you!” exclaimed the
major impatiently. “I give you fair warning that I intend to clean you
out of the place, the whole kit of you, Tom Walton included.”

“All right! It is your next move, Tommy. I hope you won’t burn your
fingers in the scrape, as you have done several times before.”

“Do you threaten me?”

“No, by no means. I only wish to tell you that those who act unjustly
must bear the burden of their own injustice. When you attempted to
have me put out of the car, it cost you a broken leg, though that was
by no act of mine. I shall try to keep the peace, but if attacked, I
shall defend myself. For all the good you and your father have done to
me and mine, I shall remember you kindly. I shall forgive and forget
all the injury. I stood by you and your father as long as you would
let me. I refused the very situation which I have now accepted when in
your employ, for no money could tempt me to forsake my friends. I hope
you will not try to get up a quarrel with me, Tommy, for I have no
ill-will towards you, and would rather serve you now than injure you.”

“Do you mean that?”

“Upon my word I do!” I answered earnestly; and if I know my own heart,
I spoke the simple truth.

“Perhaps we will give you a chance to prove what you say,” said
Tommy, with an incredulous shake of the head. “Attention--battalion!
Forward--march!”

As abruptly as he had come upon me, he left me. Evidently my words
had suggested some plan to him, and I had a right to expect some
proposition from him. To sum up Tommy’s threats, he intended to drive
me out of the town--not by force or by legal measures, but by making
“the place too hot to hold me;” which, being interpreted, meant that he
and his friends would vex and annoy our family until we should be glad
to seek a new home elsewhere. Of course a man so influential as Major
Toppleton, senior, had the power to make Middleport very disagreeable
to us.

“Tommy’s dander is up,” said Tom Walton, as the battalion marched up
the street.

“It doesn’t take much to bring his wrath up to the boiling-point,” I
replied.

“I think you have given them an awful heavy dose to-day, Wolf, if
all the stories are true,” added Tom, rubbing his hands as though he
enjoyed the situation.

“What stories?”

“They say that Colonel Wimpleton, or Waddie, made you captain of the
_Ucayga_.”

“That’s so.”

“And your father the engineer.”

“That’s so, too.”

“Then the boat beat the Lightning Express both ways.”

“All true.”

“There’s a big excitement on this side of the lake. Everybody says
Lewis Holgate must step down, and take the dummy.”

“I’m willing.”

“Can you beat them then, Wolf?”

“We can beat them on the down trip from Centreport. But we don’t expect
to do much till next spring; then the Lake Shore Railroad may hang up
its fiddle, except for business with Middleport and the towns upon the
line.”

“Is that so?” asked Tom, opening his eyes.

“No doubt of it. But I wanted to see you about another matter. Have you
any work on hand?”

“Nothing but odd jobs,” replied Tom, suddenly looking as sad as it was
possible for so good-natured a fellow to look. “I must find something
to do that will pay me better, or it will go hard with my mother this
winter. She isn’t able to do much.”

“I can put you in the way of doing something for a week or two, which
will pay you pretty well. The _Belle_ is engaged to go up the lake next
week with a fishing-party; but, as things are now, I can’t go with her.”

“I’m your man!” exclaimed Tom, his eyes sparkling with pleasure, for
this was a job after his own heart.

“All right. Let us settle on the terms.”

“Oh, you may fix them to suit yourself.”

“How much are you making now, Tom? I don’t want to be hard with you.”

“You won’t be hard with me,” laughed he.

“But let us have the matter understood. I will do as well as I can by
you. How much do you earn now?”

“Some days I make a quarter of a dollar; some days a half; and I
have earned a dollar. If I get three dollars a week I am pretty well
satisfied.”

“I am to have five dollars a day for the boat when she is taken by the
week, and seven for a single day. Suppose I give you two dollars a day
for every day the _Belle_ is used.”

“That’s handsome!” exclaimed Tom. “I shall be rich on those terms.”

“No, you won’t. She will not have anything to do for more than two or
three weeks this season. In the spring she will do well. After she is
paid for, we will divide equally.”

“Thank you, Wolf. You are a glorious fellow!”

We went down to the _Belle’s_ moorings, and I gave my friend such
instructions as he needed. I was sure my party would have no reason to
regret the change in the skippership of the boat.




CHAPTER XVIII. THE TWO MAJORS.


Tom wanted to sail the _Belle_ a while, in order to ascertain her
points; and though it was now dark, he unmoored her, and stood up
the lake. After I had called upon the gentleman who had engaged the
_Belle_, to explain the change in my arrangements--which, as the person
knew Tom very well, were entirely satisfactory--I went home. My father
had just returned from the other side; and I found our family in the
most cheerful frame of mind. Our star appeared to be in the ascendant
again.

“I have been warned out of town, father,” said I, as we sat down to
supper.

“Who warned you?” asked my father, with a smile which indicated that he
did not consider the warning as of any great consequence.

“Tommy Toppleton. He halted his battalion, and pitched into me as
though he intended to crush me beneath the hoofs of his pony.”

I went on to explain what the little major had said; but none of us
were alarmed. My mother counseled moderation, as she had always done,
and father thought we could make the most by minding our own business.

“I told Tommy I would rather serve him than injure him; and if I know
myself, I spoke the truth,” I added.

“That’s right, Wolfert! I’m glad you said that, for I know you meant
it,” said my good mother. “While we do our duty, and endeavor to
serve the Lord faithfully and patiently, we shall triumph in the end.
It does not make much difference if we are cast down for a time, or
if wicked men seem to have conquered us, we shall prosper if we are
good and true. We can afford to wait for success as long as we do our
duty. As the minister said last Sunday, God does not always call that
success which passes for such in this world. Real success is being ever
faithful to God and conscience.”

I believed what my mother affirmed; but it always did me good to hear
her repeat the lesson of wisdom and piety. It always strengthened
my soul, and helped me to maintain my standard of duty. My father
was not a religious man, though he always went to church, and had a
high respect for sacred things. He always listened in silence to the
admonitions of my mother; but I was sure he approved them, and believed
in them.

Before we rose from the table, the door-bell rang, and my mother, who
answered the summons, informed me that Major Toppleton desired to see
me immediately at his own house.

“What does this mean?” asked my father, manifesting much interest in
the event.

“I don’t know; but the message reminds me of what Tommy said when we
parted,” I replied.

“What did he say?”

“When I told him I would rather serve than injure him, he replied that
perhaps I might have a chance to prove what I said.”

“It may be that the major intends to make you an offer,” added my
father. “I have no doubt he feels very sore about the events of this
afternoon.”

“Very likely he does, for we certainly beat the Lightning Express all
to pieces; and I am confident we can do it every time we try, on the
down trip.”

“Suppose he should make you an offer?” inquired my father anxiously.
“What if he should offer you three or four dollars a day to run the
Lightning Express?”

“I am glad you asked the question, father, for my mind is made up. I
may be wrong, but I think I am right. I should decline the offer.”

“If he offered you more wages than the colonel agreed to pay you?”

“Colonel Wimpleton has fairly engaged me to run the _Ucayga_,” I
replied, taking my hat from the nail. “It would not be right for me to
leave him without giving him reasonable notice of my intention to do
so.”

“Certainly not. As long as he uses you well, you are bound to do the
same by him, whatever happens.”

“I refused to leave the railroad company when the colonel offered me
more wages than I was receiving. He has given me my place in good
faith. If I can do better on this side of the lake than I can on the
other, I think I have the right to resign my situation, if I give
reasonable notice.”

“Quite right, Wolf,” replied my father warmly. “Major Toppleton
discharged us both without an hour’s notice, and I don’t think we are
under special obligation to him for his recent treatment of us, though
he certainly did us a good turn when we were persecuted by Colonel
Wimpleton.”

My father and I were in perfect accord, as we generally were on
questions of right and of policy; and I hastened to the major’s house,
not without a certain dread of confronting the great man. I was
admitted to the library. I had hoped I should obtain at least a sight
of Grace, but I did not; and I braced my nerves for the interview with
the great major and the little major, for both of them were present.
The father bowed loftily and haughtily as I entered, and the son looked
supercilious and contemptuous. Neither of them was courteous enough to
invite me to take a seat, and I stood up before them, waiting their
imperial pleasure.

“You sent for me, Major Toppleton, and I have come,” I ventured to say;
and the cold reception accorded to me had a tendency to make me stand
upon my dignity.

“I find, to my surprise, that you have gone into the employ of Colonel
Wimpleton,” said the senior major, with a sneer upon his lips.

“Yes, sir,” I replied, bowing.

“I am astonished!” added the major.

“Neither my father nor myself could afford to remain without
employment, when good offers were made to us,” I answered respectfully.

“Then I am to understand that you and your father have arrayed
yourselves against me.”

“By no means, sir.”

“Do you not understand that Wimpleton’s steamer and the Lake Shore
Railroad are running against each other?” demanded my late patron
severely.

“I do, sir; but I do not think that a fair business competition means
any personal ill-will. If it does, it is entirely a matter between you
and Colonel Wimpleton. I am not the owner of the _Ucayga_, and she will
run just the same whether I go in her or not.”

Major Toppleton bit his lips. Perhaps he felt that my point was well
taken.

“You ran the steamer this afternoon, and, by your knowledge of the
Horse-Shoe Channel, made a quick trip. Those who know say you took the
steamer through in fifteen minutes less than her usual time. I hold
you responsible, therefore, for this day’s work.”

“Of course I did the best I could for my employers, as I was in the
habit of doing when I ran on the railroad.”

“After doing as much as I have for you and your father, I did not
expect to see you both arrayed against me.”

“But you discharged us both, sir. What could we do? We could not afford
to refuse good offers.”

“If the Evil One should offer you a price, would you sell your soul to
him?”

“Decidedly not, sir. It did not happen to be the Evil One who made us
the offers, and they were accepted.”

“It was the same thing!” exclaimed the major bitterly.

“Let me talk, father,” said Tommy, who, by a miracle which I could not
comprehend, had thus far remained silent.

His father let him talk, and, like an obedient parent, was silent
himself.

“Wolf, you said you would rather serve me than injure me,” continued
the little major, fixing his gaze upon me.

“I did; and I meant so,” I replied.

“Suppose I should offer to give you back your place on the locomotive.”

“It will be time enough to answer when you have done so.”

I had no idea that he intended to make me any such offer. The sneers
and the looks of contempt bestowed upon me were sufficient assurances
that neither father nor son regarded me with any other feeling than
aversion. It was not necessary gratuitously to decline the offer in
advance, and thus provoke their anger.

“Suppose I should make you the offer,” repeated Tommy, rather disturbed
by my evasive reply.

“As you have not made it, I need not answer.”

“I don’t like to make an offer, and then have it refused.”

“I do not like to say what I will do till I have an opportunity to do
it,” I answered.

“You need not bother your head about it. I don’t intend to make you an
offer. I only wanted to show you that you did not mean what you said
about serving me,” continued Tommy spitefully. “I wouldn’t----”

“Stop a minute, Tommy,” interposed his father. “Wolf, after all we have
done for you, we have a right to expect something better of you.”

“What would you have me do, sir?” I asked.

“Do! I’ll tell you. Go to Wimpleton to-night. Resign your situation.
Then come to me, and I’ll talk with you about a place for----”

“Stop a minute, father,” said Tommy. “Don’t make any promises. I
wouldn’t have him on the Lake Shore Railroad any more than I would have
Wimpleton himself. He’s a hypocrite--would rather serve me than injure
me! Let him resign his place on this steamer! That would be doing
something to serve me. After that it will be time enough to talk.”

I made no reply, for it was patent to me that Tommy had sent for me
merely to bully me. It was easier and cheaper to bear it than to resent
it.

“Perhaps you think you can ruin the Lake Shore Railroad, in which I
have invested so much money,” sneered the senior major.

“I have no desire to do so.”

“But you are trying to do it,” added Tommy.

“I intend to work for the interests of my employers. If I have an
opportunity to serve you, I shall do so, but not by being unfaithful to
those who pay me for my work.”

“That’s just what you did when in my employ,” said the father. “You
made your peace with Wimpleton in my yacht, feeding him and taking care
of him at my expense.”

“I did only an act of humanity toward him,” I answered, stung by the
charge.

“No matter! You are a traitor and a renegade. Go your way, and take the
consequences of your treachery. But let me tell you and Wimpleton that
when I have made my next move, your steamer might as well be at the
bottom of the lake as to attempt to compete with the road.”

I bowed, and left, though I did not escape till Tommy had again poured
out the vials of his wrath upon me. If the major had published his
“next move” to the world I could not have understood it any better. The
up-lake steamers were no longer to make a landing at Centreport, where
the _Ucayga_ could get any of her through passengers. I went home and
told my father the result of the interview. He only laughed at the
impotent rage of the two majors.

Early on Monday morning, as my father and I were pulling across the
lake in my old skiff, we saw the _Grace_--Major Toppleton’s yacht--get
under way and stand up the lake. This movement explained what occurred
on the arrival of the morning boat from Hitaca.




CHAPTER XIX. THE MAJOR’S NEXT MOVE.


On Monday morning, at quarter-past eight, the _Ucayga_ was in readiness
to start as soon as the steamer should arrive from Hitaca. She was in
sight, and our runners were on the wharf, prepared to induce through
travelers to leave her for our more elegant and spacious boat. Waddie
was on board, as excited as though the success of the whole scheme
depended entirely upon him.

The up-lake steamer was approaching the Narrows; but, instead of
heading directly toward the pier on the Centreport side, as usual,
she hugged the west shore. We did not suspect that any change in
her movements would be made at present; at least not before it was
duly announced in the advertisements and posters of the company. I
expected to hear of a different arrangement in a week or two, after
Major Toppleton had thoroughly tested the capacity of the railroad and
steamers.

“What does this mean, Wolf?” demanded Waddie blandly, as the Hitaca
boat stopped her wheels near the Middleport landing.

“It means that she is not coming to Centreport with her through
passengers,” I replied, hardly less chagrined than the president of the
steamboat company.

“But she has no right to do that,” protested Waddie, who, like the
two great men, had the idea that no one could be justified in acting
contrary to his interest and his wishes.

“I suppose the owners of that line have the right to run their boats
where they please.”

“But they have not advertised any change in their arrangements.”

“They are responsible for what they do,” I added.

“They must have passengers on board who wish to come to Centreport.”

“Probably the boat will come over here after the _Ucayga_ starts. Of
course this is a plan on the part of Major Toppleton to prevent us from
taking any of his through passengers. We can’t expect the railroad
company, which controls those boats, to play into our hands.”

“But we can expect fair play.”

“Hardly,” I replied.

“But what can we do?” demanded Waddie, intensely nettled by this
movement of the other side.

“We can do nothing, just now. I expected this thing, though not quite
so soon.”

“As the matter stands now, we are beaten.”

“Just now we are; but I think we shall not stay beaten long,” I
continued good-naturedly. “Your father understands the matter
perfectly, and has not lost a moment in preparing for the emergency.
When we have the other steamer, we shall be on the top of the wave
again.”

“But must we keep quiet until the other boat is completed?”

“Perhaps not, Waddie, though we cannot fully compete with the other
side till we have the new boat. I wonder if your father came down in
that steamer.”

“I don’t know. I think not. He has not had time to do his business in
Hitaca.”

“I have a plan to propose and, when we have time, I will talk it over
with you.”

“You always have a plan to propose,” said Waddie, beginning to look
more hopeful. “Perhaps I will see you when you return, for I must go to
school this morning. I haven’t forgotten what I said on Saturday.”

“I hope not. If I were you, I would not say anything to any one that I
had made certain good resolutions. Let them find it out by your actions
rather than your promises.”

“I will, Wolf; but I am so excited about that steamboat business that I
can’t think of much else.”

“Control yourself, Waddie. Do your duty faithfully at school, and I
will try to have everything go right with the boat.”

“I am vexed at this change in the running of those boats. It throws us
completely out of our plans.”

“We must expect such things. We can’t have it all our own way, and we
must make the best of the circumstances as we find them.”

“Major Toppleton is smart.”

“I told you he would not be content to have the wind taken out of his
sails. He rose early this morning, and went up the lake in his yacht.
Probably he went on board of that steamer at Gulfport, and directed
her captain to proceed directly to Middleport, instead of coming to
Centreport first.”

“What is your plan, Wolf? I am curious to know about it. Do you mean to
start from Middleport?”

“No, we can’t do that. Major Toppleton controls the water-front of the
town, and we could not get a landing-place there.”

“But don’t my father control the water-front on this side? Don’t we let
the major’s boats land here?”

“Certainly; and it would be very unwise in your father to prevent them
from doing so; for he would thus shut off from Centreport all direct
communication with Hitaca, and the other towns up the lake. When he has
established a through line, he can afford to keep his wharves for the
exclusive use of his own boats, though I question the policy of doing
so, even then.”

“By the great horn spoon, Wolf, you have a long head!”

“Thank you, Waddie!”

“But you have not told me about your plan.”

“I’m afraid I have not time to do so now,” I replied, looking at my
watch. “It is nearly half-past eight.”

“Well, I will see you when you return from Ucayga.”

Waddie remained with me till I gave the order to cast off the fasts
and haul in the planks. It was evident by this time that the boat from
Hitaca was not coming to Centreport until after we had started; and at
precisely half-past eight the _Ucayga_ left the wharf. We had quite
a respectable number of passengers, though, of course, we had not a
single one from up the lake; and, under the new arrangement, we could
not possibly have one in the future. It was certainly vexatious, as
Waddie had suggested, to be checkmated in this manner, and I knew that
Colonel Wimpleton would storm furiously when he heard of it.

I had expected it; and, after the first shock, I felt reconciled to the
misfortune. Under the present arrangement, the _Ucayga_ accommodated
only Ruoara and Centreport, and till we could offset the movement of
Major Toppleton, she must be run only for their benefit. There was not
more than half business enough to support her. The plan which I had
devised, and of which I had spoken to Waddie, had its advantages and
its disadvantages; but I was sure that it would be a paying operation
for the steamer. I was very anxious to state it to the colonel and
Waddie.

As soon as the _Ucayga_ left the wharf, the Hitaca boat started for
Centreport. The major did not intend to lose any Centreport trade,
and by the arrangement he saved his up-lake passengers for that town.
Doubtless he was a happy man, and Tommy was satisfied that he had again
thrown the magnificent steamer into the shade. Well, they had, to a
certain extent; but it was our next move.

We were at the wharf in Ruoara on time; for the _Ucayga_, under
favorable circumstances, rather exceeded her rate of sixteen miles an
hour. Waddie had sent up the two trucks which I required, and we made
our landing in about five minutes. I took the wheel when the boat left
the wharf, and carried her safely through the Horse-Shoe Channel; and
this time without a particle of the nervousness which had disturbed me
before. I gave Van Wolter the bearings, so that he could be preparing
himself for the task when occasion should require.

But, really, there was now no reason to go through the narrow channel.
As we had no possible chance of obtaining any through passengers, it
was useless to wait for the up-lake boats, though under my proposed
arrangement it would have enabled me to save the day. The mate
carefully noted the bearings I pointed out to him, and the operations
which I explained. He was a skilful man in his business, and I had no
doubt he would soon be a competent pilot for the channel.

While we were going through the passage, the Lightning Express
dashed along the other side of the lake; and I was satisfied, from
its increased speed and punctuality, that Lewis Holgate had been
superseded. The locomotive was evidently under the charge of a skilful
hand. But the spirited competition of Saturday, which I had anticipated
would continue for a few days, seemed to be at an end. The _Ucayga_
was on time, and so was the train. The passengers from the latter came
over on the ferry, and as they landed, I saw Major Toppleton and Tommy.
A great crowd of people had come down on the Lightning Express, the
larger part of whom were through travelers.

To my surprise, my late patrons walked towards the boat. Both of them
looked extremely pleasant, as well they might, after the large freight
they brought down, at two dollars a head, from Hitaca. They saw me,
as I stood on the hurricane-deck, overlooking the landing of our
merchandise.

“Good morning, Wolf,” said the senior major. “I hope you are very well
this morning.”

“Quite well, I thank you, sir,” I replied, as cheerfully as I could.

Both majors laughed; they could not help it after the victory they had
won; and I tried to laugh with them, but it was rather hard work. The
father and son came on board, and presently joined me on the upper deck.

“This is a magnificent boat, Wolf,” said the great man.

“Yes, sir, she is a very fine boat,” I replied.

“I had no idea she was so well fitted up. You did not have many
passengers down--did you, Wolf?”

“Not so many as we desired, sir.”

“I suppose you remember what I said Saturday night?” chuckled the major.

“Yes, sir.”

“I told you it was my next move.”

“Yes, sir, I recollect that you said so.”

“Well, Wolf, I have made that move.”

“I see you have, sir; and, without any disrespect to you, perhaps
Colonel Wimpleton will conclude to make the next move himself.”

“The next move!” laughed the major. “We think on our side, that we have
him in a tight place.”

“He don’t think so himself, Major Toppleton; and I’m sure I don’t.”

“What do you mean, Wolf?”

“You seemed to be very much pleased with your success, and I
congratulate you upon it. It’s all fair.”

“Of course it’s all fair; but what is your next move?” asked the major,
trying to conceal a shade of anxiety that crossed his face.

“As you did not tell me what your move was to be, I think I will keep
still for the present, especially as it is not yet matured.”

“That’s all gas, Wolf,” interposed Tommy. “You can’t do nothing.”

“Perhaps we can’t; but we can try,” I replied, good-naturedly.

The ferry-boat rang her bell, and my guests departed, though I offered
them a passage in the _Ucayga_.




CHAPTER XX. GRACE TOPPLETON FAINTS.


It was certainly our next move, and after the _Ucayga_ left the wharf,
I went into my stateroom, abaft the wheel-house, to make some figures
relating to my plan. My apartment was a little parlor, and though I had
scarcely been into it before, I was very much pleased with it. Besides
a berth, in which a nice bed was made up, the stateroom was provided
with a desk, lockers for books and papers, a couple of armchairs, a
table, and other suitable furniture.

This was not the traditional “captain’s office” to which passengers are
invited to step up by the boy with the bell. The office was abaft the
port paddle-box on the main deck; and the _Ucayga_, in anticipation
of doing a large business, was provided with a clerk, so that I had
nothing to do but attend to the navigation of the boat.

I felt like a lord in my palatial little room, and I was rather sorry
that the exigencies of the service did not require me to sleep in it.
I sat down at my desk, and was soon absorbed in my calculation. In
my own opinion, I had a splendid idea--one which would induce Major
Toppleton and his son to call me a traitor again as soon as it was
reduced to practise. I had not time to finish writing out the program
before the mate called me, as the _Ucayga_ approached the Horse-Shoe
Channel.

I took the boat through the difficult passage, and after we had made
the landing at Ruoara, I returned to my room, and finished writing
out my plan. Then, with the aid of a handbill which hung up in the
apartment, I drew up an advertisement of the proposed new arrangement
suitable for the newspapers and for posters, so that, the moment it was
approved by Colonel Wimpleton, it could be printed.

I was much excited by the brilliant scheme I had devised, and I was
not quite sure that I could not throw the Lake Shore Railroad into
the shade, even with one steamer. Certainly with two, the road would
be reduced to the condition to which the major had condemned the
_Ucayga_--that of doing merely a local business for the towns on its
own line. I was very sorry that Colonel Wimpleton did not return by
the morning boat, for I was impatient to show him my figures, and to
have the new program inaugurated without any delay.

If the short trips of our boat had done nothing else, they had hurried
up the Lake Shore Railroad; for, when we reached Centreport, the train
had arrived, and the boat for Hitaca had started. Doubtless Major
Toppleton and his son continued to be perfectly happy, and believed
that they had achieved a decisive and final victory. For the present
they had; but it was our next move. As I had nearly three hours to
spare, and as Waddie did not appear on board, I went home for an hour,
taking the steamer’s jolly-boat, with two deck-hands, to pull me across
the lake.

I landed at the steps near the steamboat wharf, and had hardly ascended
to the pier when I had the fortune or the misfortune to confront Tommy
Toppleton. In the enjoyment of his great victory, he had come down to
witness the arrival of the _Ucayga_, ten or fifteen minutes after the
departure of the Hitaca boat. He looked quite as pleasant as when I had
met him down the lake, a couple of hours before.

“How are you again, Wolf?” said he, halting before me on the wharf.

“First-rate,” I replied. “I hope you are.”

“Yes, all but my leg, and that is doing very well. I only limp a little
now. You are not on time to-day, Wolf.”

“Why, yes; I thought I was. The _Ucayga_ was at her wharf at
eleven-twenty-five. That was on time, and a little ahead of it.”

“But you were not in season for your passengers to go up to Hitaca in
the boat which has just gone.”

“No, I was not; but then, you see, we had no passengers for Hitaca. We
did not insure any one a connection at Centreport to-day, and so none
came by our boat. I did so on Saturday, because your train was ten or
fifteen minutes behind time.”

“Well, that won’t happen again,” added Tommy confidently.

“You haven’t fallen out with Lewis Holgate--have you?” I inquired.

“No--oh, no! But I persuaded him to go on the dummy, where he is more
at home.”

“I was satisfied you had some one on the locomotive who understood the
business.”

“Lewis and I are as good friends as ever.”

“I am glad to hear that.”

“Are you, Wolf?” sneered Tommy.

“Certainly I am.”

I had my doubts whether Lewis Holgate was as good a friend as ever;
for, being degraded from the locomotive to the dummy would rankle in
his heart, however well he succeeded in concealing his real feelings.

“You haven’t resigned your situation as captain of the steamer--have
you, Wolf?” asked the little major, with a sinister expression.

“I have not.”

“On the whole, I think I wouldn’t do it, if I were you,” he added,
laughing.

“I did not think of doing so, unless the circumstances required such a
step.”

“Because we are having it all our own way on this side, and we are
perfectly willing you should do anything you please now.”

“That’s handsome; that’s magnanimous, Tommy; and I thank you for
your condescension,” I answered, as cheerfully as I could. “I am very
pleasantly situated just now, and it affords me very great pleasure
to know that anything in the way of fair competition will not be
considered as interfering with your rights and privileges.”

“Do anything you like, Wolf. You will be beaten both ways, now, and
I think you have come about to the end of your rope. After Colonel
Wimpleton has spent so much money on that new steamer, we ought not
grudge him the little business he can obtain in Centreport and Ruoara.”

“I am glad you feel so, Tommy, and that I have your kind permission to
take any step I may think proper.”

“Do just what you think best now.”

“Thank you.”

“I don’t mean to say that my opinion of your conduct toward us is
at all changed; but as I look at it, your treachery will be its own
reward.”

“That’s rather cool, Tommy. After turning me off with every indignity
and mark of contempt you could devise, you talk about my treachery!”

“We won’t jaw about that. I don’t love you now; but we won’t quarrel,
if you will only take yourself out of Centreport.”

“We may not find it convenient to do that immediately; but probably our
business will require us to leave soon.”

“We have made our next move, and we are satisfied.”

“I hope you won’t find any fault when we make ours.”

“Certainly not,” sneered the little major. “You can’t do anything now.”

“You may be mistaken; but I hope you will take it as kindly as we do,
if things should not go to suit you.”

“Oh, yes!”

“I have your permission to do what I think best,” I replied, walking up
the pier.

The little major evidently saw no possible way by which the _Ucayga_
could compete with the railroad, as long as the Hitaca boats did
not land first at Centreport. I did. I walked to my father’s house,
thinking over what he had said, and anticipating the storm which would
take place when my plan was carried out, as I was confident it would
be, as soon as it was submitted to Colonel Wimpleton.

“There has been a gentleman here to see you, Wolfert,” said my mother,
as I went into the house.

“Who was he?”

“Mr. Portman, or Captain Portman, I think he said. He was very anxious
to see you.”

“Portman, Portman,” I replied, repeating the name, and trying to recall
the owner thereof, for it sounded familiar to me.

“He is a stout gentleman, and wore gray clothes.”

“Oh, I know!” I exclaimed, pulling out my pocket-book, and taking
therefrom the card of the stout stranger who had pitched Tommy
Toppleton out of the car on the railroad.

“He told me, if you came over to-day noon, to send word to him at the
hotel.”

My mother accordingly sent the message by one of my sisters; and, while
she was absent, I related all the events of the forenoon. Presently
Captain Portman presented himself. He was very glad to see me, and
spoke of me very handsomely, to my face, for my conduct on the railroad.

“As you are no longer in the employ of the Lake Shore Railroad, Wolf, I
thought I would like to offer you a place,” he said. “But your mother
tells me you have a good situation now.”

“Yes, sir; I am running the new steamer from Centreport to Ucayga.”

“I am sorry you are engaged, though I congratulate you on your splendid
situation. I am going to keep a yacht at my place, near Hitaca, and
I wanted you to take charge of her next spring, and I will give you
plenty of work, and good pay for the winter.”

“I am very much obliged to you for your kind offer; but as things stand
now, I shall be obliged to decline.”

“I see you must; but I am glad to meet you, for I took a fancy to you.
My place is only five miles from Hitaca, and I should be pleased to see
you there.”

We talked for half an hour about affairs on the lake, and I invited him
to dine with me; but he was engaged with a friend at the hotel. Just as
he was taking his leave, we heard a timid pull at the door-bell.

“Miss Grace Toppleton,” said my mother, showing her into the room where
we were, which was the parlor.

“Grace!” I exclaimed, delighted to see her.

But I perceived in an instant that she was intensely agitated, and I
realized that her visit was not one of ceremony. Indeed, I could not
help fearing that some terrible calamity had happened.

“Oh, Mr. Wolf! I am----”

“Take a chair, Miss Grace,” I interposed, as she gasped, and seemed to
be entirely out of breath.

I placed the rocking-chair for her, and she began to move toward it.
Then I saw that her face had suddenly become deadly pale. Her step
tottered, and she was on the point of falling to the floor, when I
sprang to her assistance, as did my mother also at the same time. I
received her into my arms, and bore her to the sofa.

“Bless me, the poor child has fainted! What can have happened to her?”
exclaimed my mother, running for her camphor-bottle.

Though it was not very strange that a young lady should faint, I was
utterly confounded by the situation. Something had occurred to alarm
or agitate her; but I could not imagine what it was. I looked out the
window; but I could see not even a horse, cow, or dog, to terrify her.




CHAPTER XXI. GRACE TOPPLETON’S STORY.


My mother had the reputation of being a skilful person in sickness,
or in any emergency. She devoted herself earnestly to the restoration
of Grace. I could not help looking at her, alarmed as I was, while
she lay pale and beautiful on the sofa. Captain Portman manifested a
deep interest in the sufferer, though he knew that she belonged to the
family of my persecutor, for the male members of which he had strongly
expressed his contempt and disgust.

I tried again to devise some explanation of the singular visit of Grace
at our house, and of the violent emotion which agitated her. Although I
knew that her father was indulgent to her, I was afraid that everything
was not pleasant at home. I had seen her brother strike her a severe
blow, and had heard him talk to her in the most violent manner. If he
would behave thus brutally to her in the presence of others, what would
he not do in the privacy of his own home? Grace was conscientious, and
with the highest views of truth and duty.

It was not difficult to believe, therefore, that some trouble had
occurred in the family of the great man of Middleport, and that poor
Grace had fled from her home in fear of personal violence. I began
to flatter myself, in view of the fact that she had come to me for
protection, and to fancy myself already a knight-errant. I had all
along rejoiced in the belief that she regarded me with favor and
kindness; but this last act of confidence crowned all my hopes. While
I was thinking what I should do for her, how I should shield her, she
opened her eyes.

My mother continued her benevolent ministrations until Grace was wholly
restored. Probably she was in the habit of fainting; at any rate, she
came out of the swoon with a facility which astonished me, and led me
to the conclusion that fainting was not the most serious thing in the
world, as I had supposed when I saw her silent and motionless on the
sofa. She seemed to gather up her faculties almost as suddenly as she
had been deprived of their use.

“Mr. Wolf, I came to see you,” said she, after she was able to speak.
“I am sorry I fainted; but I have not felt well to-day.”

“Rest yourself, Miss Toppleton,” interposed my mother. “Don’t try to
talk much yet.”

“I feel much better now, and shall do very well. I am much obliged to
you Mrs. Penniman, for your kindness.”

“Oh, not a bit!” exclaimed my mother.

“But I must do the errand which brought me here, and go home,” said
Grace, rising from the sofa.

“Don’t get up yet, Miss Toppleton; sit still,” added my mother, gently
compelling her to resume her place on the sofa.

“I feel quite well now. I always faint when anything disturbs me. Mr.
Wolf, I have something to say to you.”

“Well, I think I will go,” said Captain Portman.

“Not yet, if you please, sir,” interposed Grace. “What I have to say
concerns you, also. My father and my brother will be terribly incensed
against me if they know that I have been here.”

“They shall not know it from any of us,” I replied.

“I am sorry that my brother hates you, Mr. Wolf, and sorry that my
father indulges all his whims. My mother and I think that they do very
wrong; but we can’t help it. Just before I came away from home, I heard
them talking together about the gentleman who put my brother out of the
train at the time his leg was broken. That was you, sir, I believe?”

Captain Portman bowed his acknowledgment of the fact.

“They were talking about arresting you, sir, and taking you before the
court for an assault upon Tommy.”

The stout gentleman smiled, as though it were not a very serious matter.

“But I don’t think I should have come here if this had been all,”
continued Grace. “My brother saw and recognized you in the street, sir.”

“Very likely,” nodded Captain Portman.

“Dear me, I must hurry on with my story, or I shall be too late to do
any good!” exclaimed the fair visitor. “Well, my brother is determined
that you shall be arrested, too, Mr. Wolf. He insists that you were
concerned in the assault. They have gone to find an officer now. Tommy
says he shall prevent your running that steamboat this afternoon, and
perhaps for a week; and this is really what my brother wants to do, so
far as you are concerned, Mr. Wolf.”

Was this all? And Miss Grace had not been driven from her home by
the persecution of her father and brother! Tommy had not even struck
her again! I was really glad, when I came to think of it, that the
matter was no worse. If I had no opportunity to do desperate deeds in
the service of my beautiful friend, I had the consolation of knowing
that there was no occasion for any. I was happy to realize that peace
reigned in the great mansion.

When my anxiety for Grace would permit me to think of myself, I
appreciated the obligation under which she had placed me by this timely
warning. I was willing to be arrested for my agency in expelling Tommy
from the train, for, being entirely innocent, I could afford to face my
accusers.

“Now, what will you do, Mr. Wolf?” asked Grace, beginning to be much
agitated again.

“First, I shall be under everlasting obligations to you for your
kindness in taking all this trouble on my account.”

“Never mind that, Mr. Wolf,” she said, blushing. “I know you had nothing
to do with injuring my brother, and I do not want you to suffer for
this, or to have your steamboat stopped for nothing. The constable
and Tommy are going to wait for you at the corner of the street,” she
added, indicating the place where I was to be captured. “You must go
some other way.”

“I will, Miss Grace.”

“And I will go and throw myself into the hands of the Philistines at
once,” added Captain Portman, laughing.

“I suppose they can’t hurt you, sir,” said Grace.

“Well, I am certainly guilty of the offense charged upon me,” replied
Captain Portman. “I will not now pretend to justify it, though your
brother was very unreasonable, and detained me, as well as a crowd of
others, without the slightest excuse for doing so. The act was done in
the anger and excitement of the moment, and I shall cheerfully submit
to the penalty of the law, as a good citizen should do.”

I thanked Miss Grace again for her interest in me, and for the trouble
she had taken on my account. What she had done was no trivial thing to
her, as her fainting fully proved, and I could not but be proud of the
devotion she had exhibited in my cause. She took her leave; and after
she had been gone a few minutes, Captain Portman departed.

Tommy’s plan included me in the arrest for an assault upon him; but
that was only a conspiracy to injure the steamboat line on the other
side of the lake. I deemed it my duty to defeat this little scheme, in
the interests of my employers. I ate my dinner hastily, and then left
the house by the back door, making my way to the lake, where I had left
my skiff, by a round-about course. I pulled across, and as I went on
board of the _Ucayga_, I hoped the constable who was waiting for me
would have a good time.

I was not quite sure that Grace had not made a mistake, so far as I
was to be connected with the arrest. She might have misunderstood the
conversation she had heard; for I could hardly believe it possible that
Major Toppleton intended to have me arrested. Everybody knew that I had
had no hand in putting Tommy out of the car. No one had ever asserted
such a thing. But they could affirm that I was in company with Captain
Portman at the time, and that I had instigated him to do the deed. Of
course this was nonsense; but it might be a sufficient pretense to
detain me long enough for the _Ucayga_ to lose her afternoon trip. The
warning I had received induced me to prepare for the future, and I
instructed the mate to run the boat through, if at any time I should be
absent when it was time to start.

I went into the engine-room, and told my father what had transpired
during my absence. He listened to me, and seemed to be much annoyed by
my story; for it looked like the first of the petty trials to which we
were to be subjected, in accordance with Tommy’s threats. While I was
thus employed, Waddie Wimpleton appeared, excited and anxious under the
defeat we had that day sustained.

“I am sorry your father did not come down this morning,” said I, after
he had expressed his dissatisfaction at the movement of Major Toppleton.

“Why?” asked Waddie hopefully.

“Because I have a plan to propose to him.”

“Can’t you propose it to me?” said he, laughing.

“I am the president of the steamboat company.”

“I know you are; but I did not think you would be willing to take a
step so decided as the one I shall propose, without the advice and
consent of your father.”

“Let me hear what it is, and then I can tell you whether I will or not.”

“Come to my stateroom, then, and I will show you all the figures. If
I mistake not, we can do a big thing, even before the keel of the
_Hitaca_ is laid down.”

“I have been thinking a good deal about our affairs to-day, Wolf,”
said Waddie, as we went upon the hurricane-deck. “I have tried to feel
kindly toward the folks on the other side. It’s hard work, and I’m not
up to it yet--by the great horn spoon I’m not!”

“You must not try to overdo the matter,” I replied, pleased with his
enthusiasm.

“They are endeavoring to injure us all they can. If Major Toppleton had
not prevented his boat from coming to Centreport this morning, it would
have been easier to feel right toward him.”

“You need not feel unkindly toward him on that account. Major
Toppleton, as an individual, is one affair; his railroad and steamboat
line is quite another. A fair competition is all right. We will not
say a word, or do a thing, against the major or his son, personally;
but we must do the best we can for the success of our line. We are in
duty bound to do it, as much for the public good as our own. If we
lessen the time between Hitaca and Ucayga by an hour, so far we confer
a benefit upon the traveling community. We need have no ill-will toward
any person. If the major and his son need our help, our kind words, let
them be given. We will not say anything to injure their line; but we
will do the best we can to build up our own.”

“But we don’t shorten the time between Hitaca and Ucayga by an hour, or
even a minute,” said Waddie.

“Perhaps we shall. Sit down, and I will show you the figures,” I
replied, as I took my program from the desk.




CHAPTER XXII. OUR NEXT MOVE.


I had written out a plan for the running of the _Ucayga_ an entire
day. I had studied it out very carefully, and made all the allowances
I deemed necessary. The basis of our anticipated success was the fact
that our boat would make sixteen miles an hour, while the old steamers
were good for only ten, or when crowded, for twelve, at the most.
Waddie looked at my time-table; but he did not exhibit any enthusiasm,
and I concluded that he did not understand it.

“What do you think of it?” I inquired, somewhat amused by the puzzled
expression on his face.

“I dare say it is first-rate; but I don’t exactly know what all these
figures mean. I see Hitaca on the paper, but of course you don’t mean
to go up there.”

“That’s just what I mean,” I replied.

“Go to Hitaca!” exclaimed Waddie.

“Certainly--go to Hitaca.”

“But my father promised the people of Centreport and Ruoara that they
should have two boats a day to Ucayga, and if you go up to the head of
the lake, you can’t possibly make two trips a day from there.”

“That’s very true; nevertheless, we will go to Hitaca once every day,
and still make the two trips, as your father promised.”

“Don’t understand it,” answered Waddie, hitching about in his chair.

“I’ll tell you about it. We are in Centreport now.”

“That’s so; and I am willing to make an oath of that,” laughed the
president of the steamboat company.

“Good! We will begin here, then,” I added, pointing to the name of the
place on my time-table. “We leave here at two-thirty, and arrive at
Ucayga so as to start from there at four.”

“Just so; that is the program now.”

“We follow the present arrangement in all respects, but with a little
addition. We reach Centreport at five-twenty-five this afternoon.”

“I understand all that,” said Waddie, rather impatiently.

“From that point we strike out a new track. Instead of remaining at
Centreport over night, we continue right on to Hitaca, stopping on
the way at Gulfport, Priam, Port Gunga, and Southport. We shall be in
Hitaca at seven-thirty, about an hour ahead of the railroad line.”

“That will give us a share of the through passengers,” added Waddie, as
he began to comprehend the nature of my plan. “But I don’t see how----”

“Hold on a minute, Mr. President,” I interposed. “You agree that my
method is all right so far?”

“Certainly.”

“We beat the other line on the through run by about an hour.”

“That’s true.”

“Then we shall take all, or nearly all, the through passengers on the
afternoon trip up; for none of them will want to waste an hour on the
passage. Besides, we give them a perfect palace of a boat, compared
with the old steamers.”

“Oh, we shall take them all!” exclaimed Waddie. “There will be no
changing, while the railroad line must change twice.”

“Still further,” I continued. “There is a train for the south which
leaves Hitaca at eight in the evening. The old boats are always too
late for it; we shall be in season. That will help us again, for
passengers going beyond Hitaca will not have to remain there over
night.”

“We shall have it all our own way,” said Waddie, rubbing his hands with
delight.

“More yet; we can have supper on board, and that will be another source
of profit to the boat, and be an accommodation to the passengers, who
in the old line have their supper at nine o’clock, after they get to
the hotel.”

“It’s all plain enough so far. You will stay in Hitaca over night?”

“Certainly; and now for the rest of the plan,” I continued, glancing
at my program. “The old-line boat leaves Hitaca at quarter of six in
the morning, so early as to be a very great annoyance to passengers. We
will leave at half-past six--three-quarters of an hour later. We can
have breakfast on board, which the old boats cannot for the want of the
facilities. We shall touch at all the intermediate ports, and arrive
at Centreport by half-past eight, or so as to leave at our usual time.”

“That’s first-rate!” exclaimed Waddie. “You get this extra trip to
Hitaca by running up at night and down in the morning.”

“Exactly so; but we can make only one through trip a day to Hitaca. We
shall reach Ucayga at ten in the forenoon, as we do now, and come right
back on the return trip. We go from the head to the foot of the lake
in three hours and a half, including stops. The railroad line does the
same thing in four and a quarter.”

“They beat us a quarter of an hour between Centreport and Ucayga, and
we beat them an hour between Centreport and Hitaca, making a balance of
three-quarters of an hour in our favor.”

“That tells the whole story, Waddie,” I replied.

“But how about the other trip?” asked the president anxiously.

“Until the _Hitaca_ is built, we must submit to be beaten on that. We
can’t go up to the head of the lake twice a day with one boat. We leave
Ucayga at ten, but we come only to Centreport. In other words, we
shall make one trip a day to Hitaca, and two to Centreport, from the
foot of the lake.”

“That’s a good deal.”

“So it is; and, by this new arrangement, we shall all have to work from
about five o’clock in the morning till eight or nine in the evening.”

“That will be rough on you.”

“But we shall have to do it only till the other steamer is built. The
boat will make a good deal of money. The old line charges two dollars a
passenger for through tickets. We can afford to carry them for a dollar
and a half.”

“But what shall be done about it? This is all talk.”

“If your father were here, I think he would send the boat to Hitaca
this very night,” I replied.

“Then I will do so,” added the president promptly.

“If there is any blame, I will share it with you.”

“Go ahead, Wolf! If you only beat the other line, my father will be
satisfied. I shall go up to Hitaca with you.”

“I will have a stateroom ready for you, if you wish to sleep on board.”

“Thank you, Wolf.”

“But we want some handbills, Mr. President, to inform the public of the
new arrangement. You can have them printed so that we can take them as
we return, and have them ready to scatter all over Hitaca when we get
there to-night.”

“I will have them done.”

I sat down at my desk, and wrote the following advertisement:

 _NO MONOPOLY!_

 THROUGH LINE TO UCAYGA!

 THE NEW AND SPLENDID STEAMER UCAYGA,

 CAPTAIN WOLFERT PENNIMAN,

 Will leave Hitaca every day at 6-1/2 o’clock A. M. Touching at
 Southport, Port Gunga, Priam, Centreport, and Ruoara, and arriving
 at Ucayga in season to connect with trains east and west. Will leave
 Ucayga at 4 o’clock P. M., and arrive at Hitaca at 7-1/2 o’clock P. M.
 Fare, $1.50.

 W. WIMPLETON, _President_.

Waddie took this copy, and hastened to the printing-office with it.
I was confident that this program would carry consternation into the
ranks of the old line. After Waddie had gone, I went down to see my
father. I explained my plan to him, and told him that the boat would go
through to Hitaca that night. He was a prudent man, and suggested some
difficulties, nearly all of which I had considered and provided for.
Except at Middleport, the wharves were free to any one who chose to use
them, so that there was no trouble about the landings. Van Wolter was a
pilot for the upper part of the lake. As the public generally were to
be benefited by the new line, we had no opposition to dread except from
the railroad company.

At half-past two, the _Ucayga_ left her wharf, and, as usual, arrived
at the foot of the lake just before four o’clock. I had fully explained
my purpose to the mate, and to all on board, that they might make their
arrangements to be absent over night. The railroad passengers were
already in waiting when we reached Ucayga, and the trains from the
east and west were in sight. Our runners were duly instructed to “ring
in” for through passengers, at a dollar and a half each, with the time
nearly an hour less than by the railroad line.

This was really the first day of the exciting competition. We had not
yet unmasked our great battery, and the victory was still with the Lake
Shore Railroad. I was not at all surprised to see Major Toppleton and
Tommy among the passengers, as we landed. They had come up a second
time that day to enjoy their triumph, and perhaps, also, to look out
for the interests of their road. They were quite as pleasant as they
had been in the morning, and both of them took the trouble to pay me
another visit.

“Well, Wolf, how goes it with the new and splendid steamer?” asked the
magnate of Middleport.

“First-rate, sir.”

“You don’t seem to have any through passengers,” laughed he.

“No, sir; none on this trip.”

“That is very unfortunate for the new and splendid steamer,” he added,
chuckling.

“Yes, sir, it is rather bad; but we have to make the best of it. We
hope to do better by and by.”

“I hope you will, for you seem to have plenty of room to spare.”

“Yes, sir; rather more than we wish we had.”

“I shall be obliged to have some new cars built, for we had about two
hundred through passengers by this trip, and we could not seat them all
in three cars.”

“I wouldn’t have any built just yet, Major Toppleton,” I answered
pleasantly.

“There will be more passengers before there are less. On our morning
trip down, and our afternoon trip up, we are always crowded,” chuckled
the major.

“If you have more than you can accommodate comfortably, we should be
glad to take some of them.”

“I dare say you would, Wolf; but the fact of it is, you are so slow
that people will not ride with you.”

“No use, Wolf,” interposed Tommy. “You might as well hang up your
fiddle. You can’t compete with the Lake Shore Railroad.”

“We never say die. We intend to have our share of the business.”

“Perhaps you do; but you won’t have it,” said Tommy, as the two trains
came in, nearly at the same time.

“Steamer _Ucayga_; new boat! Through to Hitaca!” shouted our runners.
“No change from boat to cars! Magnificent steamer! Land you in Hitaca
at half-past seven, gentlemen! Fare only a dollar and a half!”

Major Toppleton and Tommy looked aghast, and turned to me for an
explanation.




CHAPTER XXIII. UP THE LAKE.


“What do you mean, Wolf?” demanded Tommy Toppleton, turning fiercely
toward me. “Have you told your runners to lie to passengers?”

“Certainly not,” I replied. “They are telling only the truth as I
understand it.”

“The truth! Don’t you hear them?” angrily interposed Major Toppleton.

“I hear them, sir. They are saying just what they have been told to
say. You will notice that they do not utter a word against the railroad
line.”

“But they say your boat is going through to Hitaca!” exclaimed the
major.

“So she is, sir.”

“To Hitaca!”

“Yes, sir; I mean so.”

“Do I understand you that this boat is to run through to Hitaca?”
demanded the great man fiercely.

“That is precisely what my words mean,” I replied calmly. “You will
remember that you made your last move this morning. The president of
the steamboat company makes his last move this afternoon.”

“But this is absurd, and impossible. You don’t mean it. It is intended
to cheat passengers,” fumed the magnate.

“All who go with us will be landed at Hitaca at half-past seven this
evening, if no accident happens.”

“But this boat was built to run from Centreport to Ucayga.”

“That is very true, sir; but your move this morning compelled the
president to change his plans.”

“You can’t carry them out; and it is an imposition upon the public.”

“All that we promise we shall perform.”

“But it is simply impossible.”

“I think not.”

“Do you mean to tell me, Wolf, that this boat can make two trips a day
between Hitaca and Ucayga?”

“No, sir, I do not; we only propose to make one through trip a day,
with an additional one to Centreport. On our ten-o’clock trip up we
shall go only to Centreport.”

“This is villainous!” said Major Toppleton, grinding his teeth with
rage.

“One of your mean tricks, Wolf!” added Tommy savagely.

“Really you must excuse me, Tommy, but it was only this morning that I
had your kind permission to take any step I thought proper. Didn’t you
mean so?” I replied.

“You are going to run an opposition line to Hitaca, then?” growled the
father.

“And do all you can to injure those who have been your best friends,”
howled Tommy.

“Why, I was told this forenoon to do what I pleased. This is fair
competition. If people wish to ride on the railroad, they may do so. We
will not prevent them from going whichever way they please. If you are
not satisfied with your last move, you can make another. I am sorry you
exhibit so much feeling about the matter,” I continued.

“Wolf, this is rascally,” said the major, as he saw the passengers
crowding on board of the _Ucayga_. “You have cut under in the price,
too.”

“The president of the steamboat company thinks he can carry passengers
for a dollar and a half.”

“But I will carry them for a dollar!” exclaimed the major.

“For half a dollar!” added Tommy.

“I do not fix the prices for the steamboat company; but I suppose they
can carry passengers as cheaply as any other line.”

“All aboard for Hitaca!” shouted the runners.

“Gentlemen, this is an imposition!” shouted Major Toppleton, beside
himself with rage. “This boat goes only to Centreport!”

“Gentlemen, you shall be landed at Hitaca at half-past seven!” I cried,
to counteract the effect of his words.

“Passengers by the railroad for Hitaca--fare only one dollar,” added
the major.

“We’ll try this boat once,” said a gentleman in the crowd.

By this time the trains were moving off, and the travelers had chosen
by which route they would go up the lake. I ran up the ladder to the
wheel-house.

“All aboard, and all ashore!” screamed Van Wolter, as I gave him the
word.

The planks were hauled in while the major and his runners were vainly
striving to influence the passengers to leave the boat. We had them,
and we kept them. Most of them were attracted by the pleasant aspect
of the _Ucayga_, and desired to see more of her. Many had doubtless
heard of her, and were anxious to give her a trial. We backed out from
the wharf, and were soon on our way up the lake. The people on board
were not a little disturbed by the insinuations of Major Toppleton;
for, coming from him, they seemed to mean more than if uttered by the
runners. I assured them that we should perform to the letter all we had
promised. I explained the new plan to some of the regular travelers,
and the advantages of the new line were so obvious that many of them
volunteered to patronize the line in future. We were on time, and when
the _Ucayga_ arrived at Centreport, the old boat had been gone about
ten minutes. We saw her less than two miles distant. Judging from the
number of passengers on board of the ferry-boat, she had a very small
freight. Our case would argue itself with the traveling public, for no
one could be so stupid as to prefer the old line, with a change from
boat to cars, and from cars to boat again, and requiring three-quarters
of an hour longer time to make the passage.

At Centreport Waddie appeared with a thousand small handbills, for
which I had provided the copy. He brought his valise with him, and I
saw that he intended to be a passenger. He was of course very anxious
to see the working of the new arrangement. Van Wolter hurried the
freight ashore, and in five minutes we were ready to continue our
voyage. We were now just fifteen minutes behind the old boat, which we
were to beat by forty-five minutes during the trip.

Waddie had taken pains to circulate the information that the _Ucayga_
would go up the lake to Hitaca at half-past five, and our crowd of
passengers was considerably increased by those who had chosen to wait.
The number on board was entirely satisfactory, and her present trip
would be a profitable one to her owner. Waddie rubbed his hands with
delight when he saw how successful we had been in obtaining through
passengers, even before the new arrangement had been advertised; but
the steamer was so very attractive in her appearance that travelers
could not hesitate long in choosing her.

“You have a big crowd on board, Wolf,” said Waddie, after the boat
started.

“We have been remarkably fortunate,” I replied.

“You have done a big thing for us, captain; and the best thing I ever
did was to make peace with you.”

“Because you are likely to make money by it!”

“Not that alone. I want to tell you, Wolf, that I have kept my promise
so far.”

“I am very glad to hear it, and I hope you will persevere.”

“I am rather sorry this sharp competition between the old and the new
line comes in just now,” he added, musing.

“Why so?”

“Because it is only increasing the ill-feeling between the two sides of
the lake.”

“It will afford you the better opportunity to be just, if not
generous. The competition on our part shall be fair and honorable.”

“But we have cut under in price half a dollar on a trip,” suggested
Waddie.

“Two dollars is too much for a journey of forty-five miles. The
railroad line had a monopoly of the through passengers, and charged
what its officers pleased. One dollar and a half is a fair price. We
will stick to that, if you and your father consent.”

“Suppose the major puts the price down to a dollar, or even less?”

“He did that, at Ucayga, this afternoon. He offered to carry all who
would go with him for a dollar. I don’t think many people will be
willing to start three-quarters of an hour sooner in the morning,
change twice in a trip, and go in those old boats for the sake of
saving half a dollar. However, that is to be proved. But a hundred
passengers, at a dollar and a half, pays as well as a hundred and fifty
at a dollar.”

“By the great horn spoon, won’t my father be astonished when he sees
the _Ucayga_ putting in at Hitaca!”

“No doubt of it.”

“He will approve what I have done, I know,” added Waddie. “Do you
suppose Major Toppleton has gone up in the steamer ahead of us?”

“Probably he has; he will be too anxious to see the working of the new
arrangement to stay at home.”

“I have been thinking of some way to make peace between our two
families,” added Waddie.

“Have you, indeed? Well, that is hopeful,” I replied.

“I am afraid this rivalry will prevent any coming together, even if
my father were willing to make up. Do you feel quite sure that we are
doing right in running opposition to the other line?” asked Waddie
seriously; and I could not help thinking of the proverbial zeal of new
converts.

“Let us look at it a moment,” I answered, willing to take a fair
view of the whole subject. “Before the railroad was built, the boats
charged a dollar and a half from Hitaca to Ucayga, and went through
without any change. Then a Centreport passenger had to cross the
lake, go twenty miles by railroad, and then cross back again. Half a
dollar was added to the price of passage from one end of the lake to
the other. Centreport was not accommodated, and was overcharged. Is
there any moral law which compels people to submit to imposition? On
the contrary, ought they not to resist? The steamboat company carries
passengers quicker, more comfortably, and at a less price. It is,
therefore, doing the public a service, though at the expense of the
other line. Your course is not only right, but commendable. All the
people and all the towns on the lake must not suffer in order to make
the Lake Shore Railroad profitable to its owner.”

“I suppose you are right; but I wish the competition did not add to the
ill-will between the two sides.”

Waddie appeared to be sincere; but it was visionary in him to think of
such a thing as reconciling the two houses of Wimpleton and Toppleton,
though, of course, such an event was not impossible.

The _Ucayga_ was approaching Gulfport. The old boat had just made her
landing there; indeed, she started just in season to allow us to use
the wharf. I was rather afraid the bad blood of the major would induce
him to throw some obstacle in our way, but nothing of the kind was
attempted here. We landed our passengers; but the other boat had taken
all who were going up the lake, which she was not to be allowed to do
at the other ports.




CHAPTER XXIV. A TRICK OF THE ENEMY.


The next port was Priam, eight miles distant; and the _Ucayga_ dashed
merrily on her way, seeming to feel and rejoice in the responsibility
which was imposed upon her. Certainly she was doing all that was
expected of her. We were approaching the _Ruoara_; for that was the
name of the old boat, though it was a misnomer now to her, for she
did not deign to visit the town after which she was called. She was
making her best time, which, however, was very poor time, compared with
the new boat. Her captain was evidently hurrying her all he could. I
made the signal with the steam-whistle, to indicate that the _Ucayga_
intended to pass her on the port hand.

I was not a little startled to see her put her helm to starboard, and
crowd over upon our track, as though she intended to bother us. I took
the wheel with Van Wolter, and when she had forced herself in ahead of
us, I sounded the whistle to go on the starboard hand of her.

“Give her a wide berth,” said I to my companion.

“I reckon we can hit as hard as she can,” chuckled the mate.

“But we won’t hit at all, either hard or soft,” I added.

“She has put her helm to port, as though she did not mean to let us
pass her.”

“She can’t help herself,” I answered, as I crowded the helm over, so as
to give her a wide berth.

By this time we were abreast of her, and the old tub was so clumsy
that she found it impossible to crowd us any further. She had come up
so that we could recognize faces on board of her. Near the wheel-house
stood the major and Tommy, looking as ugly as they conveniently could
look. They would have sunk us in the deep waters of the lake if they
could. I was not disposed to irritate them; for I knew how miserably
they felt, as they gazed upon our crowded decks, and as they saw our
palatial craft sweeping swiftly by them. It did not appear that the
_Ruoara_ had more than forty or fifty passengers.

“We can afford to be polite,” said I to Waddie. “We will give them the
compliments of the day as we pass.”

“Don’t vex them,” replied Waddie.

“If they wish to take a common civility as an insult, they may. On
deck, there!” I cried to the hands forward. “Stand by, and dip the
ensign and the jack!”

Two of the crew promptly obeyed my order. The ensign at the stern,
and the jack at the bow, were dipped three times, just as we came
abreast of the _Ruoara_. Our passengers were disposed to be exceedingly
good-natured, and before I was aware of their purpose, they were
engaged in giving three cheers, and in demonstrating with hats,
handkerchiefs, and other articles. Not a sign of acknowledgment was
made by the old boat, and I am afraid that the magnate of Middleport
did not feel as happy as the people in our boat. We passed her, and
soon left her far behind.

We made our landings at the other ports of the lake, creating no little
excitement by our unexpected appearance. We took all the passengers and
freight that were waiting for a passage, leaving nothing for the old
boat, for the first-comer always carried off the prize. Promptly on the
time I had marked down on my program, the _Ucayga_ entered the narrow
river on which Hitaca is located. We whistled with tremendous vigor to
inform the people of the place of our arrival, for I was very anxious
that Colonel Wimpleton should be apprised of our approach.

Van Wolter was perfectly at home in the navigation of this river, and
piloted the boat, without any delay, to the broad lagoon which forms
the harbor of the town. It was just half-past seven when the bow line
was thrown on shore, and in a few moments more the steamer was fast
to the wharf. Our approach had been heralded through the town, and
the landing-place was crowded with vehicles, which had come down to
convey our passengers to the hotels, or to their homes. With them had
come a goodly delegation of the solid men of Hitaca, as well as the
miscellaneous rabble which always waits upon the advent of any new
sensation.

Almost the first person I recognized on the wharf, from my position
on the hurricane-deck, was Colonel Wimpleton. The _Ucayga_ had been
discovered and identified when miles down the lake, and her owner would
have learned of her coming, even if he had not been engaged with the
steamboat-builder on the creek near the wharf. I looked at him with
interest, for though we had achieved a triumphant success, we had acted
without his sanction, and even without his knowledge.

The moment the boat touched the wharf, the colonel rushed on board and
hastened up to the place where he had seen Waddie and me. He looked as
though he was laboring under some excitement, but I had yet to learn
whether he was angry or not. Certainly he did not look very gentle; but
then his astonishment at seeing the _Ucayga_ at Hitaca was a sufficient
explanation of his troubled aspect.

“What does all this mean, Wolf?” he demanded, rather sharply; but this
was his habit.

“If any one is to blame, I am the one, for I told Wolf to run the boat
to this place to-day,” interposed Waddie.

“But what are you here for?”

“We were compelled to come, sir,” I replied. “The action of the
railroad line left us no other course. If you will walk into my room,
sir, I will explain the whole matter; and I hope it will prove
satisfactory to you.”

“But this is a very strange movement on your part; and without a word
from me,” said Colonel Wimpleton, as I led the way into my stateroom.
“You have broken up your trips to Centreport, and there will be a howl
of indignation there when I return.”

“Not at all, sir. We shall run every trip from Centreport to Ucayga, as
usual.”

“Well, explain yourself,” continued the magnate impatiently. “Does the
boat need repairs, that you have brought her up here?”

“No, sir; she is in good order in every respect. This morning, Major
Toppleton made his next move, and we have not had a single through
passenger on the down trips to-day. As I supposed he would do, he
ordered his boat not to go to Centreport until after our steamer
had started. He took his yacht and went over to Gulfport early this
morning, so that the first boat did not touch on our side of the lake
till the _Ucayga_ had sailed.”

“That’s one of his tricks.”

“Well, sir, I don’t know that I blame him. He means business, and he
meant to keep all the through passengers. At Ucayga, to-day, he and
Tommy crowed over me, and defied me to do anything I pleased. Now, sir,
if you look at my time-table, you will see that we can, by hard work,
make two trips a day from Centreport, and one from Hitaca, to and from
the foot of the lake.”

The great man put on his spectacles, and proceeded to examine the
program which I had placed in his hands. With the explanations I made,
he comprehended the whole subject. His countenance lighted up with
pleasure as he realized that he had the means in his hands, even now,
to win the day in the battle with his great enemy.

“Why didn’t you mention this thing before, Wolf?” he asked.

“I didn’t think of it, sir. When Major Toppleton made his next move,
as he called it, I went to work on the problem, to see what could be
done. I didn’t like the idea of running from Centreport with only half
a freight. I want to make the boat pay.”

“She will pay handsomely under this arrangement. Do you think we need
another boat, now?”

“Yes, sir; I do. This boat will be going from half-past six in the
morning till half-past seven at night; and the hands will be on duty
from five in the morning till nine at night. The boats will all need
repairs, and there will be no time to make them.”

“You can have two sets of hands, if you like.”

“But we can make only one trip a day from Hitaca to Ucayga.”

“Well, that is really enough, for the railroad line has very few
passengers up in the morning, or down in the afternoon. We shall take
the lion’s share of them. This boat-builder has raised his price so
much that I have not yet made a contract with him.”

“We can try our plan for a while, if you approve it, sir,” I replied.

“Certainly I approve it.”

Waddie produced the handbills he had procured at Centreport, and
a person was employed to distribute them all over Hitaca. Colonel
Wimpleton inserted advertisements in the papers, paying liberally
for “editorial puffs” of the new line. Everything promised an entire
success for the enterprise.

At quarter-past eight, the old _Ruoara_ made her appearance, and
moored at the wharf just above the _Ucayga_. It was a meager show of
passengers which landed from her, and I could well understand the rage
which filled the bosom of the major and his son, as they stood upon the
hurricane-deck gazing at the new steamer. I wondered what their next
move would be, for it was not in the nature of either of them to submit
to the mortifying defeat they had sustained. I could think of nothing
that it was possible for them to do to retrieve their misfortune,
unless the major built new steamers, or continued the Lake Shore
Railroad to Hitaca.

As they did not come near me, I did not devote much attention to a
consideration of their case. Having nothing more to do on board, I took
a walk on shore with Waddie. I visited a clothing-store, and purchased
a suit of blue clothes, which included a frock coat. When I got up the
next morning, I put on the new garments, and surveyed myself in the
glass. The effect was decidedly satisfactory. I had a glazed cap, for
I was not quite ready to don a high hat. As I surveyed myself, I had
hopes that I should not again be accused of being a boy.

At quarter of six the _Ruoara_ left the wharf. I could not see more
than a dozen passengers on board. I looked in vain for Tommy and his
father. Soon after, the people began to pour in upon the decks of the
_Ucayga_, to the great satisfaction of Colonel Wimpleton. Our handbills
had accomplished their purpose, and our triumph was to be even greater
than that of the day before. I was very much excited by the lively
scene around me. Carriages and other vehicles were constantly arriving
with freight and passengers, and I found enough to do in answering
questions and hurrying up the men engaged in loading freight. Five
minutes before the hour of starting, the scene became a little more
quiet. I stood upon the wharf, looking at the situation, when I saw
Major Toppleton and his son, accompanied by a stranger, approaching me.

“There he is!” said Tommy, pointing to me with his finger. “Grab him!”

Hearing the words, I deemed it prudent to hasten on board, for I
concluded that this was the sequel to the affair of the day before in
Middleport. I hurried to the plank; but before I could reach the deck,
the stranger seized me by the collar. I struggled to escape, but the
man was too strong for me.

“I have a warrant for your arrest,” said he.

A trick of the enemy!




CHAPTER XXV. THE STEAMBOAT EXCURSION.


“Hold on to him!” shouted Tommy. “This is our next move.”

“I am sorry to trouble you, Captain Penniman; but I must do my duty,”
said the constable.

“I should like to inquire what all this means,” I added, as the
officer, finding I did not attempt to annihilate him, let go his hold
of me.

“I don’t know; the warrant comes up from Middleport. I suppose it is
all right.”

“Don’t stop here with him,” interposed Major Toppleton. “Take him away
to jail, or some other safe place.”

By this time Colonel Wimpleton was at my side with Waddie, both of them
so indignant that I was afraid that a scene would transpire on the
spot. My powerful patron desired to see the warrant, and the constable,
to the great disgust of the major, exhibited the document.

“All right,” said Colonel Wimpleton. “This warrant commands you to
bring your prisoner before a magistrate at Middleport. Step right on
board of our boat, and we will see that you are enabled to obey the
command to the letter.”

“I am satisfied,” answered the constable.

“But I am not,” interposed Major Toppleton angrily.

“All aboard!” shouted Van Wolter.

“I shall do my duty as I understand it,” continued the constable, as I
led the way to the deck of the _Ucayga_.

“It is your duty to commit him to jail,” growled the magnate of
Middleport.

“I will be responsible for the consequences,” added Colonel Wimpleton,
who could afford to be good-natured, as he saw his great rival defeated
in his purpose.

To my surprise, both Major Toppleton and his son followed us on board,
and did not offer to go on shore when the plank was hauled in, and the
fasts cast off. They had evidently remained at Hitaca for the purpose
of carrying out the little scheme they had contrived; and, having done
their worst, they had no further business there. Probably they could
not endure the idea of remaining at the upper end of the lake while the
battle between the two lines was going on at the other end. They had
learned from our handbills, so profusely scattered through the town,
that the _Ucayga_ would make another through trip in the afternoon, and
it was necessary for them to be at Ucayga to attend to the interests of
the Lake Shore Railroad.

It was plain to me that Major Toppleton had come up to Hitaca with the
warrant in his pocket, not to obtain justice for the injury which Tommy
had sustained, but to interfere with the operations of the new line.
I should have been arrested the day before if Grace Toppleton, whom I
had come to regard as an angel of peace in my path, had not given me
warning. My enemies must have been entirely satisfied that they could
not hold me responsible for the damage done to Tommy, and my arrest was
only intended as a blow at the steamboat line. At Hitaca, doubtless,
they expected to detain my boat long enough, at least, to make her lose
her connection at the lower end of the lake.

The arrival of the _Ucayga_ at Hitaca, and the announcement of a new
daily line, at reduced rates, had created no little excitement in the
town. The people believed that they were to be better accommodated,
and, very naturally, their sympathies were with the new line, as the
large number of passengers we carried fully proved. The constable told
me that he had been called upon to serve the warrant only a few minutes
before he made his appearance on the wharf. He saw at once that it
was a trick to annoy the new line, but he could not help himself. The
moment Colonel Wimpleton showed him how he could discharge his duty
without injury to the enterprise, he promptly embraced the opportunity.
Major Toppleton and Tommy were doubtless sorely vexed at their failure;
but they went into the cabin, and I did not see them again for some
time.

It was a beautiful autumnal morning when the _Ucayga_ started upon
her trip, crowded with passengers. Colonel Wimpleton, alive to the
importance of this day’s work, had engaged the Hitaca Cornet Band to
enliven the passage with their music. The weather was warm, and the
soft haze of the Indian summer hung over the hills on the shore, where
the woods presented the many hues of the changing foliage. The water
was as tranquil as a dream of peace, and the inspiring strains of the
band completed the pleasure of the occasion.

I explained to Colonel Wimpleton, Waddie, and others who were
interested in the matter, the occasion of the proceedings against me.
It is needless to say that I had no lack of friends; and, with the
consent of the constable, it was arranged that he should take me before
the magistrate at noon, while the boat was at Centreport. No charge
could be proved against me, and I hardly gave the subject a thought.

The passage down the lake was a delightful one. We passed the old
_Ruoara_ just before we made the landing at Gulfport. At this town we
saw Major Toppleton and his son go ashore, for the purpose of taking
the railroad boat on her arrival. Neither of them showed himself on the
trip, and I only hoped they appreciated the new steamer, and enjoyed
the delightful music. I was rather afraid the colonel would court a
collision with his powerful rival; but I am happy to say he was too
good-natured, in the flush of his success, to exult over his enemy.

We made all our landings, and, passing through the Horse-Shoe Channel
as usual, arrived at Ucayga on time. This concluded our first
round-trip to the head of the lake. It was a success far beyond our
most sanguine hopes, and the exchequer of the steamboat company was
largely benefited by it. The future was as bright as the present, and
really I could not see that the Lake Shore Road had any chance against
us.

But this was to be a day of excitement. Colonel Wimpleton landed at
Centreport for the purpose of organizing a grand steamboat excursion to
Ucayga and back in the afternoon; and when the boat returned I found
the town in a blaze, for a pleasure trip, with a band of music, was no
small affair to the people. Handbills were scattered throughout the
place, and, as we had the advantage of a magnificent day, there was no
want of enthusiasm on the subject.

As soon as the steamer reached Centreport, I went with the constable,
Colonel Wimpleton, and the ablest lawyer in the place, over to
Middleport. We found Captain Portman at the hotel, and hastened to the
office of the magistrate. Like my friend from up the lake, I waived
the examination, and was simply bound over to appear before the court
several weeks hence for trial. Colonel Wimpleton and one of his friends
gave bonds for my appearance, and the excitement in this direction was
ended.

I went home, and invited my mother and sisters to the excursion in the
afternoon. Of course I had a long story to tell of the history of the
trip to Hitaca, and I had attentive listeners in the dear ones at home.
I knew that my mother dreaded and deprecated the fearful rivalry which
was going on between the two sides. I assured her that the best way to
make peace was not always by giving up. One party was as nearly right
as the other, and when each had shown his full strength there would be
a better opportunity to heal the breach. I told her that, so far as
I was concerned, and Waddie also, there was no ill-feeling. It was a
business competition, in which neither had any reason to complain of
the other, so long as he did not trench upon his rights.

As I walked down to the lake with my mother and sisters, I saw Grace
Toppleton in her father’s garden. I wished that I could invite her to
the excursion, for nothing could have added so much to its pleasure as
her presence. But it was not proper for me to ask her, and it would not
have been proper for her to accept if I had. I was proud and happy as I
went on board of the _Ucayga_ with my mother and sisters. The steamer
was already filled with passengers, and at half-past two we started.
The band struck up an appropriate air as the wheels began to turn, and
I never saw a happier party than that which crowded the decks of the
_Ucayga_. In spite of the excitement, in spite of the throng on board,
we were, as usual, on time.

When we touched the wharf near the railroad, the ferry-boat had
arrived, and I saw Major Toppleton and Tommy on shore, listening to the
music and observing the multitude which covered our decks. I hoped I
should not meet them, face to face, again; for I knew that our success
had only increased their bitterness toward me. But they did not seem to
be so ugly as when I had last seen them. Indeed, there was a smile upon
their faces, as though the music delighted them. When our bow line was
thrown ashore, they stepped on board, and came upon the hurricane-deck,
where I stood.

“You seem to be having a great time to-day, Wolf,” said Tommy.

“Only a little excursion,” I replied. “But the music is good, and I
rather enjoy it.”

“So do I, Wolf,” answered Tommy graciously. “I am going up with you, if
you have no objection.”

“Certainly not. Here is my stateroom; and if you and your father will
walk in, I will do the best I can to make you comfortable,” I replied,
pointing to my apartment.

“Thank you; I prefer to be on deck,” added Tommy. “You have beaten us
all to pieces to-day, Wolf, and we give it up now. What’s the use of
quarreling about it?”

“None at all, most assuredly,” I replied, with enthusiasm. “There is
Waddie Wimpleton, who is just of your opinion.”

“Well, I don’t think much of Waddie, as you know, Wolf. I only meant
that you and I wouldn’t quarrel.”

“I don’t know why you and Waddie should quarrel. He intends to do the
right thing.”

“Perhaps he does; but the least said is soonest mended,” said Tommy,
rather coldly.

I was amazed and astounded at this sudden change of front in Tommy,
who had hardly bestowed a pleasant word upon me for months. I could
not feel sure that he meant what he said; but I resolved to afford him
no cause of complaint if he really was sincere. It seemed to me more
probable that he had some end to gain, under the mask of friendship,
than that he was willing to make peace with me.

“Your boat appears to be doing remarkably well to-day, Wolf,” said
Major Toppleton, stepping up to me.

“Yes, sir; she is making good trips to-day.”

“By the way, Wolf, you need give yourself no uneasiness about that
trial. I caused your arrest under a misapprehension, and no harm shall
come to you.”

“I am very glad to hear you say so, sir, though I really had no fears
of the consequences.”

“I am going to adopt Tommy’s suggestions, and have no more quarreling,”
added the great man.

“I hope not, sir.”

“You can have it all your own way on the lake now.”

“I only wish to do what is right.”

“I know you do, Wolf. Are you at home in the evening, now?”

“No, sir. I have to spend the night at Hitaca. I suppose our family
will move up there soon, and you will get rid of us then.”

“We don’t desire to get rid of you,” interposed Tommy.

“I want to see you, Wolf, when you are at leisure,” continued the
major. “When can you call upon me?”

“To-morrow noon, if you please,” I replied, delighted at the prospect
of again being permitted to stand under the same roof with Grace.

“I will be at home,” said the magnate, as he walked away at the
approach of Colonel Wimpleton.




CHAPTER XXVI. MAJOR TOPPLETON’S PROPOSITION.


“What does Toppleton want with you?” asked Colonel Wimpleton, coming up
to me after the major and his son had retired.

The magnate of Centreport looked ugly, as though, in the moment of his
great triumph, he feared a conspiracy to rob the steamboat company of
the laurels it had won.

“Nothing in particular, that I am aware of,” I replied, not exactly
pleased to have even an unkind look bestowed upon me, after the victory
which I had been instrumental in winning.

“You seem to be on excellent terms with him,” sneered the colonel.

“I do not wish to quarrel with any one.”

“What did Toppleton want?” demanded the great man, rather more sharply
than the occasion seemed to require.

“I don’t know that he wants anything. He invited me to call at his
house, and I promised to do so,” I answered candidly.

“You did!”

“I did, sir. Both the major and Tommy were kind enough to say that
they did not wish to quarrel with me; and certainly I have no ill-will
against them.”

“You have not!” repeated Colonel Wimpleton, with emphasis. “Am I not
your bail on a groundless charge preferred by them?”

“But they have done me more of good than of evil; and the major said no
harm should come to me on account of the trial.”

“Wolf, I don’t like this way of doing things. If you are in my service,
I don’t want you to have anything to do with my enemies. If three
dollars a day is not enough for a boy like you, I will give you four or
five; but you mustn’t play into the hands of Toppleton.”

“I don’t intend to do so, sir. I never yet deserted those who used me
well, and I don’t intend to begin now. If you think you cannot trust
me, sir, don’t do it.”

The time for starting having arrived, the conversation, which did not
promise very agreeable results, was interrupted. The band struck up its
music, and the _Ucayga_ left the wharf. I went into my stateroom for
the purpose of being alone a moment, for I wanted to think over what
the colonel had just said to me. He was evidently jealous of anything
like intimacy between the Toppletons and myself, and was afraid I would
“sell out” the steamboat company. I was not flattered by the suspicion.
I considered the subject very faithfully; but I decided that it was
unreasonable in my present patron to insist that I should have nothing
to do with the Toppletons. As long as Grace lived and smiled upon me,
I could assent to nothing of the kind, even if I lost my situation. At
the same time, I intended to be true to my employers, even if Grace
ceased to smile upon me for doing so.

On the up trip the _Ucayga_ was even uncomfortably crowded; for,
besides the excursion party, we had a large number of through
passengers. But, as soon as the boat was clear of the wharf, they began
to settle down, and to cease to crowd each other. The band played
splendidly, and everybody seemed to be satisfied. At Centreport we
left the crowd, though the boat was still well filled. The program
of the preceding day was repeated. We passed the old _Ruoara_ near
Gulfport, and arrived at Hitaca a little before the time in my table.
As we had kept all our promises, the new line was in high favor with
the public.

The next morning, the old boat departed with hardly a corporal’s guard
of passengers, while the _Ucayga_ was crowded. We landed our freight
at Ucayga on time, and everybody was satisfied that the new line was
an assured success. I need not follow its triumphs any further, for it
would be only a repetition of what has already been said. The steamboat
line was carrying nearly all the passengers. The old-line boats had
hardly business enough to pay for the oil used on the machinery, though
the Lake Shore Railroad did tolerably well with its local trade.

When the _Ucayga_ arrived at Centreport, on the day after the
excursion, I crossed the lake; and, after a short visit to my mother,
I hastened to the mansion of Major Toppleton. I was not only curious
to know what the major wanted of me, but I was thirsting for the
opportunity to meet Grace. The latter motive was doubtless the
stronger one; for, since the poor girl had risked so much to give me
warning of the intended arrest, I flattered myself that she was not
wholly indifferent to me.

With a fluttering heart I rang the bell at the door of Major
Toppleton’s house. I was admitted to the library. Neither the great man
nor his son was at home; but the servant assured me they would soon
return, for it wanted but a few minutes of lunch-time. I ventured to
ask if Miss Grace was at home. I knew she was, for I heard the piano in
one of the neighboring rooms, and the music was so sweet I was sure no
hands but hers could produce it. In a moment she entered the library,
her soft cheeks crimsoned with a blush, which made me feel exceedingly
awkward.

“Why, Mr. Wolf! I am so glad to see you!” said she; and, in the
enthusiasm of the moment, she advanced toward me, and gave me her hand.

“I’m sure you cannot be as glad to see me as I am to see you,” I
replied, pressing the little hand in mine.

Dear me! What was I doing? Straightway I began to feel very queer
and awkward, and cheap and mean. She was confused, and apparently
astonished by the boldness of my remark, for she retired to a sofa on
the other side of the room. I was beginning to thank her for the great
service she had rendered me on Monday, when Major Toppleton and Tommy,
whom the stupid servant had taken the trouble to summon, entered the
library. I wished they had deferred their coming for half an hour.
Both of them seemed to be very glad to see me, and took no notice of
the presence of Grace. To my astonishment, the magnate invited me to
lunch with him. I had not the courage to refuse, or, in other words, to
banish myself from the presence of Grace.

“Wolf, we had just nine passengers from Hitaca this morning,” said the
major, with a chuckling laugh, as though he intended to make the best
of his discomfiture.

“We had over two hundred and fifty,” I replied.

“Yesterday afternoon we had a fair freight down; but we can’t do
anything against that new steamer, especially when you have a band of
music on board,” added the major. “Will you take some of this cold
chicken?”

“Thank you, sir--a little. For your sake I am sorry the steamboat line
is doing so well.”

“You can do anything you please with Colonel Wimpleton, just now,” he
added.

“I think not, sir.”

“I believe you can. The fact is, you suggested the plan by which the
railroad line has been defeated.”

“But the plan is already in working order, and it will go on just as
well without me as with me.”

“I am sorry we had any trouble with you, Wolf, for suddenly from a boy
you have become a man, and a dangerous man, too, for our side of the
lake.”

I was forced to believe that this was mere flattery, intended to help
along some object not yet mentioned.

“I have done the best I could for my employers, on whichever side I
happened to be engaged.”

“That’s true. I am going to speak plainly now, Wolf. We are beaten;
but we don’t intend to remain beaten for any great length of time. The
prosperity of Middleport depends greatly upon the Lake Shore Railroad,
and I intend to make that a success if it costs me all I am worth. I
shall build a bridge at the foot of the lake, so that I can go into
Ucayga without the aid of a ferry-boat. A Lightning Express is going
through from Middleport to the station at Ucayga in three-quarters of
an hour. So far I am determined.”

“That will not help your case much, so far as through travel is
concerned.”

“Considerable, Wolf. We shall save fifteen minutes.”

“But we shall still beat you by half an hour.”

“Very true; but I don’t intend to stop here. I shall either build a
steamer equal or superior to the _Ucayga_, to run between Hitaca and
Middleport, or I shall run the railroad to the head of the lake.”

“Will it pay?”

“I think it will, but, though Wimpleton and I have always quarreled of
late years, I am willing to be fair. I have a plan, which I will state
to you. If Wimpleton will run the _Ucayga_ from Hitaca to Middleport in
connection with the railroad, I will take off my boats. This will be a
fair thing for both of us. You may state the case to him. If he agrees
to it, all right; if not, I shall make my next move.”

This, then, was what the major was driving at, and I was to be the
ambassador between the rivals. I was willing to do the best I could,
but I proposed that Tommy and Waddie should meet and discuss the
matter. The little magnate of Middleport promptly and indignantly
refused to meet the other little magnate. I promised to report the next
day on my mission. As I was leaving, I invited Mrs. Toppleton and Grace
to make a trip with me up or down the lake. Somewhat to my surprise, at
the suggestion of the major, they accepted the invitation for that day.
We crossed the lake, and I assure the reader I took every pains to make
my guests happy.

Neither Waddie nor his father was on board again that day; but
the latter went up to Hitaca with me in the afternoon. Cautiously
approaching the subject I stated Major Toppleton’s proposition. The
colonel would hardly listen to it, much less accept it. He swore, and
abused his great rival. He would have nothing to do with Toppleton. He
would sink the _Ucayga_ before he would help the railroad to a single
passenger. He was very savage, and, before he had finished, poured out
the vials of his wrath upon me for mentioning the subject.

The next day I reported the result of my mission; and Major Toppleton
was quite as savage as the colonel had been. He swore, too, and
declared that he would run the _Ucayga_ off the route before another
summer.

I spoke to Waddie on the subject, and he expressed a strong desire to
meet Tommy, and to be friends with him. He favored the plan of Major
Toppleton, and if he had possessed as much influence over his father as
Tommy over his, the arrangement would doubtless have been made. I was
not without hope that the plan might yet be adopted.

But I have told my story as a steamboat captain; and anything more
would be but a repetition. I had labored to make peace, but had failed.
If there were olive branches in the future, there were none in the
present. I continued to run the _Ucayga_ during the winter, with the
same success which attended her from the first of my connection with
her. We did about all the through business, and the Lake Shore Railroad
languished under the competition.

At the next meeting of the steamboat company Waddie resigned, to
the intense indignation of his father, and Dick Bayard was elected
president. He also declined a reelection as major of the battalion, and
Ben Pinkerton was chosen to the command. Thus far Waddie was true to
his good resolutions, though he had much difficulty with his father on
account of the change. He often came to me for advice, for the students
of the institute seemed to distrust him still. No mutiny or rebellion
occurred on his side of the lake, for the resigning of his offices
prevented any collision.

Tom Walton made a good thing out of the _Belle_, and when the season
closed, I obtained a place for him as deck-hand on board of the
_Ucayga_, where he did tolerably well for the winter.

In November our family moved up to Hitaca, for my father and I were
compelled to spend our nights and Sundays at that port. Our place
in Middleport was let for the winter. Occasionally, while lying at
Centreport, I made an errand over to Major Toppleton’s that I might see
Grace; but I seldom met her. I hoped, most earnestly, that the two
lines might be united, and peace restored between the two great houses.
As Waddie was in favor of it, the prospect was not altogether dark.
As the union meant peace, I continued to labor for it. If effected,
the _Ucayga_ would lie at the wharf in Middleport between trips. I
earnestly desired it. Then Grace would be a frequent passenger on the
boat.

I have told the story of “The Young Captain of the _Ucayga_ Steamer;”
how he became captain, and how well he succeeded in this capacity. The
story is complete, and nothing more remains to be said of him; but the
history of the great quarrel between the two sides of the lake, which
has other phases, is not finished. There is another story to be told;
but, as most of its events transpired while I was absent, I could only
tell it from hearsay. I prefer that it should be related by an actual
witness, and for this reason I have invited my friend Ned Skotchley to
take the pen, and write “Switch Off; or, The War of the Students.”

I told Ned not to say anything more about me than he was obliged to
do; but he is an obstinate fellow, and I find, by looking over his
manuscript, that he has, to a very great extent, disregarded my
instructions. But I am not responsible for the praise he bestows upon
me, though, whatever he says of me, I am conscious that I have tried to
be a Christian, to be faithful to my employers, and always to be “On
Time.”

THE END

“Switch Off” is the title of the next volume in the ALGER SERIES, No.
150, by Oliver Optic, in which there are many rare adventures and an
ending which is eminently satisfactory.

       *       *       *       *       *

NICK CARTER STORIES

New Magnet Library

Price, Fifteen Cents _Not a Dull Book in This List_

Nick Carter stands for an interesting detective story. The fact that
the books in this line are so uniformly good is entirely due to the
work of a specialist. The man who wrote these stories produced no
other type of fiction. His mind was concentrated upon the creation of
new plots and situations in which his hero emerged triumphantly from
all sorts of troubles and landed the criminal just where he should
be--behind bars.

The author of these stories knew more about writing detective stories
than any other single person.

Following is a list of the best Nick Carter stories. They have been
selected with extreme care, and we unhesitatingly recommend each of
them as being fully interesting as any detective story between cloth
covers which sells at ten times the price.

If you do not know Nick Carter, buy a copy of any of the New Magnet
Library books, and get acquainted. He will surprise and delight you.

_ALL TITLES ALWAYS IN PRINT_

   850--Wanted: A Clew                       By Nicholas Carter
   851--A Tangled Skein                      By Nicholas Carter
   852--The Bullion Mystery                  By Nicholas Carter
   853--The Man of Riddles                   By Nicholas Carter
   854--A Miscarriage of Justice             By Nicholas Carter
   855--The Gloved Hand                      By Nicholas Carter
   856--Spoilers and the Spoils              By Nicholas Carter
   857--The Deeper Game                      By Nicholas Carter
   858--Bolts from Blue Skies                By Nicholas Carter
   859--Unseen Foes                          By Nicholas Carter
   860--Knaves in High Places                By Nicholas Carter
   861--The Microbe of Crime                 By Nicholas Carter
   862--In the Toils of Fear                 By Nicholas Carter
   863--A Heritage of Trouble                By Nicholas Carter
   864--Called to Account                    By Nicholas Carter
   865--The Just and the Unjust              By Nicholas Carter
   866--Instinct at Fault                    By Nicholas Carter
   867--A Rogue Worth Trapping               By Nicholas Carter
   868--A Rope of Slender Threads            By Nicholas Carter
   869--The Last Call                        By Nicholas Carter
   870--The Spoils of Chance                 By Nicholas Carter
   871--A Struggle With Destiny              By Nicholas Carter
   872--The Slave of Crime                   By Nicholas Carter
   873--The Crook’s Blind                    By Nicholas Carter
   874--A Rascal of Quality                  By Nicholas Carter
   875--With Shackles of Fire                By Nicholas Carter
   876--The Man Who Changed Faces            By Nicholas Carter
   877--The Fixed Alibi                      By Nicholas Carter
   878--Out With the Tide                    By Nicholas Carter
   879--The Soul Destroyers                  By Nicholas Carter
   880--The Wages of Rascality               By Nicholas Carter
   881--Birds of Prey                        By Nicholas Carter
   882--When Destruction Threatens           By Nicholas Carter
   883--The Keeper of Black Hounds           By Nicholas Carter
   884--The Door of Doubt                    By Nicholas Carter
   885--The Wolf Within                      By Nicholas Carter
   886--A Perilous Parole                    By Nicholas Carter
   887--The Trail of the Finger Prints       By Nicholas Carter
   888--Dodging the Law                      By Nicholas Carter
   889--A Crime in Paradise                  By Nicholas Carter
   890--On the Ragged Edge                   By Nicholas Carter
   891--The Red God of Tragedy               By Nicholas Carter
   892--The Man Who Paid                     By Nicholas Carter
   893--The Blind Man’s Daughter             By Nicholas Carter
   894--One Object in Life                   By Nicholas Carter
   895--As a Crook Sows                      By Nicholas Carter
   896--In Record Time                       By Nicholas Carter
   897--Held in Suspense                     By Nicholas Carter
   898--The $100,000 Kiss                    By Nicholas Carter
   899--Just One Slip                        By Nicholas Carter
   900--On a Million-dollar Trail            By Nicholas Carter
   901--A Weird Treasure                     By Nicholas Carter
   902--The Middle Link                      By Nicholas Carter
   903--To the Ends of the Earth             By Nicholas Carter
   904--When Honors Pall                     By Nicholas Carter
   905--The Yellow Brand                     By Nicholas Carter
   906--A New Serpent in Eden                By Nicholas Carter
   907--When Brave Men Tremble               By Nicholas Carter
   908--A Test of Courage                    By Nicholas Carter
   909--Where Peril Beckons                  By Nicholas Carter
   910--The Gargoni Girdle                   By Nicholas Carter
   911--Rascals & Co.                        By Nicholas Carter
   912--Too Late to Talk                     By Nicholas Carter
   913--Satan’s Apt Pupil                    By Nicholas Carter
   914--The Girl Prisoner                    By Nicholas Carter
   915--The Danger of Folly                  By Nicholas Carter
   916--One Shipwreck Too Many               By Nicholas Carter
   917--Scourged by Fear                     By Nicholas Carter
   918--The Red Plague                       By Nicholas Carter
   919--Scoundrels Rampant                   By Nicholas Carter
   920--From Clew to Clew                    By Nicholas Carter
   921--When Rogues Conspire                 By Nicholas Carter
   922--Twelve in a Grave                    By Nicholas Carter
   923--The Great Opium Case                 By Nicholas Carter
   924--A Conspiracy of Rumors               By Nicholas Carter
   925--A Klondike Claim                     By Nicholas Carter
   926--The Evil Formula                     By Nicholas Carter
   927--The Man of Many Faces                By Nicholas Carter
   928--The Great Enigma                     By Nicholas Carter
   929--The Burden of Proof                  By Nicholas Carter
   930--The Stolen Brain                     By Nicholas Carter
   931--A Titled Counterfeiter               By Nicholas Carter
   932--The Magic Necklace                   By Nicholas Carter
   933--’Round the World for a Quarter       By Nicholas Carter
   934--Over the Edge of the World           By Nicholas Carter
   935--In the Grip of Fate                  By Nicholas Carter
   936--The Case of Many Clews               By Nicholas Carter
   937--The Sealed Door                      By Nicholas Carter
   938--Nick Carter and the Green Goods Men  By Nicholas Carter
   939--The Man Without a Will               By Nicholas Carter
   940--Tracked Across the Atlantic          By Nicholas Carter
   941--A Clew From the Unknown              By Nicholas Carter
   942--The Crime of a Countess              By Nicholas Carter
   943--A Mixed Up Mess                      By Nicholas Carter
   944--The Great Money Order Swindle        By Nicholas Carter
   945--The Adder’s Brood                    By Nicholas Carter
   946--A Wall Street Haul                   By Nicholas Carter
   947--For a Pawned Crown                   By Nicholas Carter
   948--Sealed Orders                        By Nicholas Carter
   949--The Hate That Kills                  By Nicholas Carter
   950--The American Marquis                 By Nicholas Carter
   951--The Needy Nine                       By Nicholas Carter
   952--Fighting Against Millions            By Nicholas Carter
   953--Outlaws of the Blue                  By Nicholas Carter
   954--The Old Detective’s Pupil            By Nicholas Carter
   955--Found in the Jungle                  By Nicholas Carter
   956--The Mysterious Mail Robbery          By Nicholas Carter
   957--Broken Bars                          By Nicholas Carter
   958--A Fair Criminal                      By Nicholas Carter
   959--Won by Magic                         By Nicholas Carter
   960--The Piano Box Mystery                By Nicholas Carter
   961--The Man They Held Back               By Nicholas Carter
   962--A Millionaire Partner                By Nicholas Carter
   963--A Pressing Peril                     By Nicholas Carter
   964--An Australian Klondyke               By Nicholas Carter
   965--The Sultan’s Pearls                  By Nicholas Carter
   966--The Double Shuffle Club              By Nicholas Carter
   967--Paying the Price                     By Nicholas Carter
   968--A Woman’s Hand                       By Nicholas Carter
   969--A Network of Crime                   By Nicholas Carter
   970--At Thompson’s Ranch                  By Nicholas Carter
   971--The Crossed Needles                  By Nicholas Carter
   972--The Diamond Mine Case                By Nicholas Carter
   973--Blood Will Tell                      By Nicholas Carter
   974--An Accidental Password               By Nicholas Carter
   975--The Crook’s Bauble                   By Nicholas Carter
   976--Two Plus Two                         By Nicholas Carter
   977--The Yellow Label                     By Nicholas Carter
   978--The Clever Celestial                 By Nicholas Carter
   979--The Amphitheater Plot                By Nicholas Carter
   980--Gideon Drexel’s Millions             By Nicholas Carter
   981--Death in Life                        By Nicholas Carter
   982--A Stolen Identity                    By Nicholas Carter
   983--Evidence by Telephone                By Nicholas Carter
   984--The Twelve Tin Boxes                 By Nicholas Carter
   985--Clew Against Clew                    By Nicholas Carter
   986--Lady Velvet                          By Nicholas Carter
   987--Playing a Bold Game                  By Nicholas Carter
   988--A Dead Man’s Grip                    By Nicholas Carter
   989--Snarled Identities                   By Nicholas Carter
   990--A Deposit Vault Puzzle               By Nicholas Carter
   991--The Crescent Brotherhood             By Nicholas Carter
   992--The Stolen Pay Train                 By Nicholas Carter
   993--The Sea Fox                          By Nicholas Carter
   994--Wanted by Two Clients                By Nicholas Carter
   995--The Van Alstine Case                 By Nicholas Carter
   996--Check No. 777                        By Nicholas Carter
   997--Partners in Peril                    By Nicholas Carter
   998--Nick Carter’s Clever Protégé         By Nicholas Carter
   999--The Sign of the Crossed Knives       By Nicholas Carter
  1000--The Man Who Vanished                 By Nicholas Carter
  1001--A Battle for the Right               By Nicholas Carter
  1002--A Game of Craft                      By Nicholas Carter
  1003--Nick Carter’s Retainer               By Nicholas Carter
  1004--Caught in the Toils                  By Nicholas Carter
  1005--A Broken Bond                        By Nicholas Carter
  1006--The Crime of the French Café         By Nicholas Carter
  1007--The Man Who Stole Millions           By Nicholas Carter
  1008--The Twelve Wise Men                  By Nicholas Carter
  1009--Hidden Foes                          By Nicholas Carter
  1010--A Gamblers’ Syndicate                By Nicholas Carter
  1011--A Chance Discovery                   By Nicholas Carter
  1012--Among the Counterfeiters             By Nicholas Carter
  1013--A Threefold Disappearance            By Nicholas Carter
  1014--At Odds With Scotland Yard           By Nicholas Carter
  1015--A Princess of Crime                  By Nicholas Carter
  1016--Found on the Beach                   By Nicholas Carter
  1017--A Spinner of Death                   By Nicholas Carter
  1018--The Detective’s Pretty Neighbor      By Nicholas Carter
  1019--A Bogus Clew                         By Nicholas Carter
  1020--The Puzzle of Five Pistols           By Nicholas Carter
  1021--The Secret of the Marble Mantel      By Nicholas Carter
  1022--A Bite of an Apple                   By Nicholas Carter
  1023--A Triple Crime                       By Nicholas Carter
  1024--The Stolen Race Horse                By Nicholas Carter
  1025--Wildfire                             By Nicholas Carter
  1026--A _Herald_ Personal                  By Nicholas Carter
  1027--The Finger of Suspicion              By Nicholas Carter
  1028--The Crimson Clew                     By Nicholas Carter
  1029--Nick Carter Down East                By Nicholas Carter
  1030--The Chain of Clews                   By Nicholas Carter
  1031--A Victim of Circumstances            By Nicholas Carter
  1032--Brought to Bay                       By Nicholas Carter
  1033--The Dynamite Trap                    By Nicholas Carter
  1034--A Scrap of Black Lace                By Nicholas Carter
  1035--The Woman of Evil                    By Nicholas Carter
  1036--A Legacy of Hate                     By Nicholas Carter
  1037--A Trusted Rogue                      By Nicholas Carter
  1038--Man Against Man                      By Nicholas Carter
  1039--The Demons of the Night              By Nicholas Carter
  1040--The Brotherhood of Death             By Nicholas Carter
  1041--At the Knife’s Point                 By Nicholas Carter
  1042--A Cry for Help                       By Nicholas Carter
  1043--A Stroke of Policy                   By Nicholas Carter
  1044--Hounded to Death                     By Nicholas Carter
  1045--A Bargain in Crime                   By Nicholas Carter
  1046--The Fatal Prescription               By Nicholas Carter
  1047--The Man of Iron                      By Nicholas Carter
  1048--An Amazing Scoundrel                 By Nicholas Carter
  1049--The Chain of Evidence                By Nicholas Carter
  1050--Paid with Death                      By Nicholas Carter
  1051--A Fight for a Throne                 By Nicholas Carter
  1052--The Woman of Steel                   By Nicholas Carter
  1053--The Seal of Death                    By Nicholas Carter
  1054--The Human Fiend                      By Nicholas Carter
  1055--A Desperate Chance                   By Nicholas Carter
  1056--A Chase in the Dark                  By Nicholas Carter
  1057--The Snare and the Game               By Nicholas Carter
  1058--The Murray Hill Mystery              By Nicholas Carter
  1059--Nick Carter’s Close Call             By Nicholas Carter
  1060--The Missing Cotton King              By Nicholas Carter
  1061--A Game of Plots                      By Nicholas Carter
  1062--The Prince of Liars                  By Nicholas Carter
  1063--The Man at the Window                By Nicholas Carter
  1064--The Red League                       By Nicholas Carter
  1065--The Price of a Secret                By Nicholas Carter
  1066--The Worst Case on Record             By Nicholas Carter
  1067--From Peril to Peril                  By Nicholas Carter
  1068--The Seal of Silence                  By Nicholas Carter
  1069--Nick Carter’s Chinese Puzzle         By Nicholas Carter
  1070--A Blackmailer’s Bluff                By Nicholas Carter
  1071--Heard in the Dark                    By Nicholas Carter
  1072--A Checkmated Scoundrel               By Nicholas Carter
  1073--The Cashier’s Secret                 By Nicholas Carter
  1074--Behind a Mask                        By Nicholas Carter
  1075--The Cloak of Guilt                   By Nicholas Carter
  1076--Two Villains in One                  By Nicholas Carter
  1077--The Hot Air Clew                     By Nicholas Carter
  1078--Run to Earth                         By Nicholas Carter
  1079--The Certified Check                  By Nicholas Carter
  1080--Weaving the Web                      By Nicholas Carter
  1081--Beyond Pursuit                       By Nicholas Carter
  1082--The Claws of the Tiger               By Nicholas Carter
  1083--Driven from Cover                    By Nicholas Carter
  1084--A Deal in Diamonds                   By Nicholas Carter
  1085--The Wizard of the Cue                By Nicholas Carter
  1086--A Race for Ten Thousand              By Nicholas Carter
  1087--The Criminal Link                    By Nicholas Carter
  1088--The Red Signal                       By Nicholas Carter
  1089--The Secret Panel                     By Nicholas Carter
  1090--A Bonded Villain                     By Nicholas Carter
  1091--A Move in the Dark                   By Nicholas Carter
  1092--Against Desperate Odds               By Nicholas Carter
  1093--The Telltale Photographs             By Nicholas Carter
  1094--The Ruby Pin                         By Nicholas Carter
  1095--The Queen of Diamonds                By Nicholas Carter
  1096--A Broken Trail                       By Nicholas Carter
  1097--An Ingenious Stratagem               By Nicholas Carter
  1098--A Sharper’s Downfall                 By Nicholas Carter
  1099--A Race Track Gamble                  By Nicholas Carter
  1100--Without a Clew                       By Nicholas Carter
  1101--The Council of Death                 By Nicholas Carter
  1102--The Hole in the Vault                By Nicholas Carter
  1103--In Death’s Grip                      By Nicholas Carter
  1104--A Great Conspiracy                   By Nicholas Carter
  1105--The Guilty Governor                  By Nicholas Carter
  1106--A Ring of Rascals                    By Nicholas Carter
  1107--A Masterpiece of Crime               By Nicholas Carter
  1108--A Blow For Vengeance                 By Nicholas Carter
  1109--Tangled Threads                      By Nicholas Carter
  1110--The Crime of the Camera              By Nicholas Carter
  1111--The Sign of the Dagger               By Nicholas Carter
  1112--Nick Carter’s Promise                By Nicholas Carter
  1113--Marked for Death                     By Nicholas Carter
  1114--The Limited Holdup                   By Nicholas Carter
  1115--When the Trap Was Sprung             By Nicholas Carter
  1116--Through the Cellar Wall              By Nicholas Carter
  1117--Under the Tiger’s Claws              By Nicholas Carter
  1118--The Girl in the Case                 By Nicholas Carter
  1119--Behind a Throne                      By Nicholas Carter
  1120--The Lure of Gold                     By Nicholas Carter
  1121--Hand to Hand                         By Nicholas Carter
  1122--From a Prison Cell                   By Nicholas Carter
  1123--Dr. Quartz, Magician                 By Nicholas Carter
  1124--Into Nick Carter’s Web               By Nicholas Carter
  1125--The Mystic Diagram                   By Nicholas Carter
  1126--The Hand That Won                    By Nicholas Carter
  1127--Playing a Lone Hand                  By Nicholas Carter
  1128--The Master Villain                   By Nicholas Carter
  1129--The False Claimant                   By Nicholas Carter
  1130--The Living Mask                      By Nicholas Carter
  1131--The Crime and the Motive             By Nicholas Carter
  1132--A Mysterious Foe                     By Nicholas Carter
  1133--A Missing Man                        By Nicholas Carter
  1134--A Game Well Played                   By Nicholas Carter
  1135--A Cigarette Clew                     By Nicholas Carter
  1136--The Diamond Trail                    By Nicholas Carter
  1137--The Silent Guardian                  By Nicholas Carter
  1138--The Dead Stranger                    By Nicholas Carter
  1140--The Doctor’s Stratagem               By Nicholas Carter
  1141--Following a Chance Clew              By Nicholas Carter
  1142--The Bank Draft Puzzle                By Nicholas Carter
  1143--The Price of Treachery               By Nicholas Carter
  1144--The Silent Partner                   By Nicholas Carter
  1145--Ahead of the Game                    By Nicholas Carter
  1146--A Trap of Tangled Wire               By Nicholas Carter
  1147--In the Gloom of Night                By Nicholas Carter
  1148--The Unaccountable Crook              By Nicholas Carter
  1149--A Bundle of Clews                    By Nicholas Carter
  1150--The Great Diamond Syndicate          By Nicholas Carter
  1151--The Death Circle                     By Nicholas Carter
  1152--The Toss of a Penny                  By Nicholas Carter
  1153--One Step Too Far                     By Nicholas Carter
  1154--The Terrible Thirteen                By Nicholas Carter
  1155--A Detective’s Theory                 By Nicholas Carter
  1156--Nick Carter’s Auto Trail             By Nicholas Carter
  1157--A Triple Identity                    By Nicholas Carter
  1158--A Mysterious Graft                   By Nicholas Carter
  1159--A Carnival of Crime                  By Nicholas Carter
  1160--The Bloodstone Terror                By Nicholas Carter
  1161--Trapped in His Own Net               By Nicholas Carter
  1162--The Last Move in the Game            By Nicholas Carter
  1163--A Victim of Deceit                   By Nicholas Carter
  1164--With Links of Steel                  By Nicholas Carter
  1165--A Plaything of Fate                  By Nicholas Carter
  1166--The Key Ring Clew                    By Nicholas Carter
  1167--Playing for a Fortune                By Nicholas Carter
  1168--At Mystery’s Threshold               By Nicholas Carter
  1169--Trapped by a Woman                   By Nicholas Carter
  1170--The Four Fingered Glove              By Nicholas Carter
  1171--Nabob and Knave                      By Nicholas Carter
  1172--The Broadway Crofts                  By Nicholas Carter
  1173--The Man Without a Conscience         By Nicholas Carter
  1174--A Master of Deviltry                 By Nicholas Carter

       *       *       *       *       *

Western Stories About BUFFALO BILL

Price, Fifteen Cents Red-blooded Adventure Stories for Men

There is no more romantic character in American history than William
F. Cody, or, as he was internationally known, Buffalo Bill. He, with
Colonel Prentiss Ingraham, Wild Bill Hickok, General Custer, and a few
other adventurous spirits, laid the foundation of our great West.

There is no more brilliant page in American history than the winning of
the West. Never did pioneers live more thrilling lives, so rife with
adventure and brave deeds, as the old scouts and plainsmen. Foremost
among these stands the imposing figure of Buffalo Bill.

All of the books in this list are intensely interesting. They were
written by the close friend and companion of Buffalo Bill--Colonel
Prentiss Ingraham. They depict actual adventures which this pair of
hard-hitting comrades experienced, while the story of these adventures
is interwoven with fiction; historically the books are correct.

_ALL TITLES ALWAYS IN PRINT_

    1--Buffalo Bill, the Border King          By Col. Prentiss Ingraham
    2--Buffalo Bill’s Raid                    By Col. Prentiss Ingraham
    3--Buffalo Bill’s Bravery                 By Col. Prentiss Ingraham
    4--Buffalo Bill’s Trump Card              By Col. Prentiss Ingraham
    5--Buffalo Bill’s Pledge                  By Col. Prentiss Ingraham
    6--Buffalo Bill’s Vengeance               By Col. Prentiss Ingraham
    7--Buffalo Bill’s Iron Grip               By Col. Prentiss Ingraham
    8--Buffalo Bill’s Capture                 By Col. Prentiss Ingraham
    9--Buffalo Bill’s Danger Line             By Col. Prentiss Ingraham
   10--Buffalo Bill’s Comrades                By Col. Prentiss Ingraham
   11--Buffalo Bill’s Reckoning               By Col. Prentiss Ingraham
   12--Buffalo Bill’s Warning                 By Col. Prentiss Ingraham
   13--Buffalo Bill at Bay                    By Col. Prentiss Ingraham
   14--Buffalo Bill’s Buckskin Pards          By Col. Prentiss Ingraham
   15--Buffalo Bill’s Brand                   By Col. Prentiss Ingraham
   16--Buffalo Bill’s Honor                   By Col. Prentiss Ingraham
   17--Buffalo Bill’s Phantom Hunt            By Col. Prentiss Ingraham
   18--Buffalo Bill’s Fight With Fire         By Col. Prentiss Ingraham
   19--Buffalo Bill’s Danite Trail            By Col. Prentiss Ingraham
   20--Buffalo Bill’s Ranch Riders            By Col. Prentiss Ingraham
   21--Buffalo Bill’s Death Trail             By Col. Prentiss Ingraham
   22--Buffalo Bill’s Trackers                By Col. Prentiss Ingraham
   23--Buffalo Bill’s Mid-air Flight          By Col. Prentiss Ingraham
   24--Buffalo Bill, Ambassador               By Col. Prentiss Ingraham
   25--Buffalo Bill’s Air Voyage              By Col. Prentiss Ingraham
   26--Buffalo Bill’s Secret Mission          By Col. Prentiss Ingraham
   27--Buffalo Bill’s Long Trail              By Col. Prentiss Ingraham
   28--Buffalo Bill Against Odds              By Col. Prentiss Ingraham
   29--Buffalo Bill’s Hot Chase               By Col. Prentiss Ingraham
   30--Buffalo Bill’s Redskin Ally            By Col. Prentiss Ingraham
   31--Buffalo Bill’s Treasure Trove          By Col. Prentiss Ingraham
   32--Buffalo Bill’s Hidden Foes             By Col. Prentiss Ingraham
   33--Buffalo Bill’s Crack Shot              By Col. Prentiss Ingraham
   34--Buffalo Bill’s Close Call              By Col. Prentiss Ingraham
   35--Buffalo Bill’s Double Surprise         By Col. Prentiss Ingraham
   36--Buffalo Bill’s Ambush                  By Col. Prentiss Ingraham
   37--Buffalo Bill’s Outlaw Hunt             By Col. Prentiss Ingraham
   38--Buffalo Bill’s Border Duel             By Col. Prentiss Ingraham
   39--Buffalo Bill’s Bid for Fame            By Col. Prentiss Ingraham
   40--Buffalo Bill’s Triumph                 By Col. Prentiss Ingraham
   41--Buffalo Bill’s Spy Trailer             By Col. Prentiss Ingraham
   42--Buffalo Bill’s Death Call              By Col. Prentiss Ingraham
   43--Buffalo Bill’s Body Guard              By Col. Prentiss Ingraham
   44--Buffalo Bill’s Still Hunt              By Col. Prentiss Ingraham
   45--Buffalo Bill and the Doomed Dozen      By Col. Prentiss Ingraham
   46--Buffalo Bill’s Prairie Scout           By Col. Prentiss Ingraham
   47--Buffalo Bill’s Traitor Guide           By Col. Prentiss Ingraham
   48--Buffalo Bill’s Bonanza                 By Col. Prentiss Ingraham
   49--Buffalo Bill’s Swoop                   By Col. Prentiss Ingraham
   50--Buffalo Bill and the Gold King         By Col. Prentiss Ingraham
   51--Buffalo Bill, Dead Shot                By Col. Prentiss Ingraham
   52--Buffalo Bill’s Buckskin Bravos         By Col. Prentiss Ingraham
   53--Buffalo Bill’s Big Four                By Col. Prentiss Ingraham
   54--Buffalo Bill’s One-armed Pard          By Col. Prentiss Ingraham
   55--Buffalo Bill’s Race for Life           By Col. Prentiss Ingraham
   56--Buffalo Bill’s Return                  By Col. Prentiss Ingraham
   57--Buffalo Bill’s Conquest                By Col. Prentiss Ingraham
   58--Buffalo Bill to the Rescue             By Col. Prentiss Ingraham
   59--Buffalo Bill’s Beautiful Foe           By Col. Prentiss Ingraham
   60--Buffalo Bill’s Perilous Task           By Col. Prentiss Ingraham
   61--Buffalo Bill’s Queer Find              By Col. Prentiss Ingraham
   62--Buffalo Bill’s Blind Lead              By Col. Prentiss Ingraham
   63--Buffalo Bill’s Resolution              By Col. Prentiss Ingraham
   64--Buffalo Bill, the Avenger              By Col. Prentiss Ingraham
   65--Buffalo Bill’s Pledged Pard            By Col. Prentiss Ingraham
   66--Buffalo Bill’s Weird Warning           By Col. Prentiss Ingraham
   67--Buffalo Bill’s Wild Ride               By Col. Prentiss Ingraham
   68--Buffalo Bill’s Redskin Stampede        By Col. Prentiss Ingraham
   69--Buffalo Bill’s Mine Mystery            By Col. Prentiss Ingraham
   70--Buffalo Bill’s Gold Hunt               By Col. Prentiss Ingraham
   71--Buffalo Bill’s Daring Dash             By Col. Prentiss Ingraham
   72--Buffalo Bill on Hand                   By Col. Prentiss Ingraham
   73--Buffalo Bill’s Alliance                By Col. Prentiss Ingraham
   74--Buffalo Bill’s Relentless Foe          By Col. Prentiss Ingraham
   75--Buffalo Bill’s Midnight Ride           By Col. Prentiss Ingraham
   76--Buffalo Bill’s Chivalry                By Col. Prentiss Ingraham
   77--Buffalo Bill’s Girl Pard               By Col. Prentiss Ingraham
   78--Buffalo Bill’s Private War             By Col. Prentiss Ingraham
   79--Buffalo Bill’s Diamond Mine            By Col. Prentiss Ingraham
   80--Buffalo Bill’s Big Contract            By Col. Prentiss Ingraham
   81--Buffalo Bill’s Woman Foe               By Col. Prentiss Ingraham
   82--Buffalo Bill’s Ruse                    By Col. Prentiss Ingraham
   83--Buffalo Bill’s Pursuit                 By Col. Prentiss Ingraham
   84--Buffalo Bill’s Hidden Gold             By Col. Prentiss Ingraham
   85--Buffalo Bill in Mid-air                By Col. Prentiss Ingraham
   86--Buffalo Bill’s Queer Mission           By Col. Prentiss Ingraham
   87--Buffalo Bill’s Verdict                 By Col. Prentiss Ingraham
   88--Buffalo Bill’s Ordeal                  By Col. Prentiss Ingraham
   89--Buffalo Bill’s Camp Fires              By Col. Prentiss Ingraham
   90--Buffalo Bill’s Iron Nerve              By Col. Prentiss Ingraham
   91--Buffalo Bill’s Rival                   By Col. Prentiss Ingraham
   92--Buffalo Bill’s Lone Hand               By Col. Prentiss Ingraham
   93--Buffalo Bill’s Sacrifice               By Col. Prentiss Ingraham
   94--Buffalo Bill’s Thunderbolt             By Col. Prentiss Ingraham
   95--Buffalo Bill’s Black Fortune           By Col. Prentiss Ingraham
   96--Buffalo Bill’s Wild Work               By Col. Prentiss Ingraham
   97--Buffalo Bill’s Yellow Trail            By Col. Prentiss Ingraham
   98--Buffalo Bill’s Treasure Train          By Col. Prentiss Ingraham
   99--Buffalo Bill’s Bowie Duel              By Col. Prentiss Ingraham
  100--Buffalo Bill’s Mystery Man             By Col. Prentiss Ingraham
  101--Buffalo Bill’s Bold Play               By Col. Prentiss Ingraham
  102--Buffalo Bill: Peacemaker               By Col. Prentiss Ingraham
  103--Buffalo Bill’s Big Surprise            By Col. Prentiss Ingraham
  104--Buffalo Bill’s Barricade               By Col. Prentiss Ingraham
  105--Buffalo Bill’s Test                    By Col. Prentiss Ingraham
  106--Buffalo Bill’s Powwow                  By Col. Prentiss Ingraham
  107--Buffalo Bill’s Stern Justice           By Col. Prentiss Ingraham
  108--Buffalo Bill’s Mysterious Friend       By Col. Prentiss Ingraham
  109--Buffalo Bill and the Boomers           By Col. Prentiss Ingraham
  110--Buffalo Bill’s Panther Fight           By Col. Prentiss Ingraham
  111--Buffalo Bill and the Overland Mail     By Col. Prentiss Ingraham
  112--Buffalo Bill on the Deadwood Trail     By Col. Prentiss Ingraham
  113--Buffalo Bill in Apache Land            By Col. Prentiss Ingraham
  114--Buffalo Bill’s Blindfold Duel          By Col. Prentiss Ingraham
  115--Buffalo Bill and the Lone Camper       By Col. Prentiss Ingraham
  116--Buffalo Bill’s Merry War               By Col. Prentiss Ingraham
  117--Buffalo Bill’s Star Play               By Col. Prentiss Ingraham
  118--Buffalo Bill’s War Cry                 By Col. Prentiss Ingraham
  119--Buffalo Bill on Black Panther’s Trail  By Col. Prentiss Ingraham
  120--Buffalo Bill’s Slim Chance             By Col. Prentiss Ingraham
  121--Buffalo Bill Besieged                  By Col. Prentiss Ingraham
  122--Buffalo Bill’s Bandit Round-up         By Col. Prentiss Ingraham
  123--Buffalo Bill’s Surprise Party          By Col. Prentiss Ingraham
  124--Buffalo Bill’s Lightning Raid          By Col. Prentiss Ingraham
  125--Buffalo Bill in Mexico                 By Col. Prentiss Ingraham
  126--Buffalo Bill’s Traitor Foe             By Col. Prentiss Ingraham
  127--Buffalo Bill’s Tireless Chase          By Col. Prentiss Ingraham
  128--Buffalo Bill’s Boy Bugler              By Col. Prentiss Ingraham
  129--Buffalo Bill’s Sure Guess              By Col. Prentiss Ingraham
  130--Buffalo Bill’s Record Jump             By Col. Prentiss Ingraham
  131--Buffalo Bill in the Land of Dread      By Col. Prentiss Ingraham
  132--Buffalo Bill’s Tangled Clue            By Col. Prentiss Ingraham
  133--Buffalo Bill’s Wolf Skin               By Col. Prentiss Ingraham
  134--Buffalo Bill’s Twice Four Puzzle       By Col. Prentiss Ingraham
  135--Buffalo Bill and the Devil Bird        By Col. Prentiss Ingraham
  136--Buffalo Bill and the Indian’s Mascot   By Col. Prentiss Ingraham
  137--Buffalo Bill Entrapped                 By Col. Prentiss Ingraham
  138--Buffalo Bill’s Totem Trail             By Col. Prentiss Ingraham
  139--Buffalo Bill at Fort Challis           By Col. Prentiss Ingraham
  140--Buffalo Bill’s Determination           By Col. Prentiss Ingraham
  141--Buffalo Bill’s Battle Axe              By Col. Prentiss Ingraham
  142--Buffalo Bill’s Game with Fate          By Col. Prentiss Ingraham
  143--Buffalo Bill’s Comanche Raid           By Col. Prentiss Ingraham
  144--Buffalo Bill’s Aerial Island           By Col. Prentiss Ingraham
  145--Buffalo Bill’s Lucky Shot              By Col. Prentiss Ingraham
  146--Buffalo Bill’s Sioux Friends           By Col. Prentiss Ingraham
  147--Buffalo Bill’s Supreme Test            By Col. Prentiss Ingraham
  148--Buffalo Bill’s Boldest Strike          By Col. Prentiss Ingraham
  149--Buffalo Bill and the Red Hand          By Col. Prentiss Ingraham
  150--Buffalo Bill’s Dance with Death        By Col. Prentiss Ingraham
  151--Buffalo Bill’s Running Fight           By Col. Prentiss Ingraham
  152--Buffalo Bill in Harness                By Col. Prentiss Ingraham
  153--Buffalo Bill Corralled                 By Col. Prentiss Ingraham
  154--Buffalo Bill’s Waif of the West        By Col. Prentiss Ingraham
  155--Buffalo Bill’s Wizard Pard             By Col. Prentiss Ingraham
  156--Buffalo Bill and Hawkeye               By Col. Prentiss Ingraham
  157--Buffalo Bill and Grizzly Dan           By Col. Prentiss Ingraham
  158--Buffalo Bill’s Ghost Play              By Col. Prentiss Ingraham
  159--Buffalo Bill’s Lost Prisoner           By Col. Prentiss Ingraham
  160--Buffalo Bill and the Klan of Kau       By Col. Prentiss Ingraham
  161--Buffalo Bill’s Crow Scouts             By Col. Prentiss Ingraham
  162--Buffalo Bill’s Lassoed Spectre         By Col. Prentiss Ingraham
  163--Buffalo Bill and the Wanderers         By Col. Prentiss Ingraham
  164--Buffalo Bill and the White Queen       By Col. Prentiss Ingraham
  165--Buffalo Bill’s Yellow Guardian         By Col. Prentiss Ingraham
  166--Buffalo Bill’s Double “B” Brand        By Col. Prentiss Ingraham
  167--Buffalo Bill’s Dangerous Duty          By Col. Prentiss Ingraham
  168--Buffalo Bill and the Talking Statue    By Col. Prentiss Ingraham
  169--Buffalo Bill Between Two Fires         By Col. Prentiss Ingraham
  170--Buffalo Bill and the Giant Apache      By Col. Prentiss Ingraham
  171--Buffalo Bill’s Best Bet                By Col. Prentiss Ingraham
  172--Buffalo Bill’s Blockhouse Siege        By Col. Prentiss Ingraham
  173--Buffalo Bill’s Fight for Right         By Col. Prentiss Ingraham
  174--Buffalo Bill’s Sad Tidings             By Col. Prentiss Ingraham
  175--Buffalo Bill and “Lucky” Benson        By Col. Prentiss Ingraham
  176--Buffalo Bill Among the Sioux           By Col. Prentiss Ingraham
  177--Buffalo Bill’s Mystery Box             By Col. Prentiss Ingraham
  178--Buffalo Bill’s Worst Tangle            By Col. Prentiss Ingraham
  179--Buffalo Bill’s Clean Sweep             By Col. Prentiss Ingraham
  180--Buffalo Bill’s Texas Tangle            By Col. Prentiss Ingraham
  181--Buffalo Bill and the Nihilists         By Col. Prentiss Ingraham
  182--Buffalo Bill’s Emigrant Trail          By Col. Prentiss Ingraham
  183--Buffalo Bill at Close Quarters         By Col. Prentiss Ingraham
  184--Buffalo Bill and the Cattle Thieves    By Col. Prentiss Ingraham
  185--Buffalo Bill at Cimaroon Bar           By Col. Prentiss Ingraham
  186--Buffalo Bill’s Ingenuity               By Col. Prentiss Ingraham
  187--Buffalo Bill on a Cold Trail           By Col. Prentiss Ingraham
  188--Buffalo Bill’s Red Hot Totem           By Col. Prentiss Ingraham
  189--Buffalo Bill Under a War Cloud         By Col. Prentiss Ingraham
  190--Buffalo Bill and the Prophet           By Col. Prentiss Ingraham
  191--Buffalo Bill and the Red Renegade      By Col. Prentiss Ingraham
  192--Buffalo Bill’s Mailed Fist             By Col. Prentiss Ingraham
  193--Buffalo Bill’s Round-up                By Col. Prentiss Ingraham
  194--Buffalo Bill’s Death Message           By Col. Prentiss Ingraham
  195--Buffalo Bill’s Redskin Disguise        By Col. Prentiss Ingraham
  196--Buffalo Bill, the Whirlwind            By Col. Prentiss Ingraham
  197--Buffalo Bill in Death Valley           By Col. Prentiss Ingraham
  198--Buffalo Bill and the Magic Button      By Col. Prentiss Ingraham
  199--Buffalo Bill’s Friend in Need          By Col. Prentiss Ingraham
  200--Buffalo Bill With General Custer       By Col. Prentiss Ingraham
  201--Buffalo Bill’s Timely Meeting          By Col. Prentiss Ingraham
  202--Buffalo Bill and the Skeleton Scout    By Col. Prentiss Ingraham
  203--Buffalo Bill’s Flag of Truce           By Col. Prentiss Ingraham
  204--Buffalo Bill’s Pacific Power           By Col. Prentiss Ingraham
  205--Buffalo Bill’s Impersonator            By Col. Prentiss Ingraham
  206--Buffalo Bill and the Red Marauders     By Col. Prentiss Ingraham
  207--Buffalo Bill’s Long Run                By Col. Prentiss Ingraham
  208--Buffalo Bill and Red Dove              By Col. Prentiss Ingraham
  209--Buffalo Bill on the Box                By Col. Prentiss Ingraham
  210--Buffalo Bill’s Bravo Partner           By Col. Prentiss Ingraham
  211--Buffalo Bill’s Strange Task            By Col. Prentiss Ingraham

       *       *       *       *       *

_A CARNIVAL OF ACTION_

ADVENTURE LIBRARY

_Splendid, Interesting, Big Stories_

PRICE, FIFTEEN CENTS

For the present the Adventure Library will be devoted to the
publication of stories by William Wallace Cook.

The fact that one man wrote all of these stories in no way detracts
from their interest, as they are all very different in plot and
locality.

For example, the action in one story takes place in “The Land of Little
Rain;” another deals with adventure on the high seas; another is a
good railroad story; others are splendid Western stories; and some
are mystery stories. All of them, however, are stories of vigorous
adventure drawn true to life, which gives them the thrill that all
really good fiction should have.

_ALL TITLES ALWAYS IN PRINT_

In order that there may be no confusion, we desire to say that the
books listed below will be issued during the respective months in New
York City and vicinity. They may not reach the readers at a distance
promptly, on account of delays in transportation.

To be published in January, 1925.

   1--The Desert Argonaut            By William Wallace Cook
   2--A Quarter to Four              By William Wallace Cook

To be published in February, 1925.

   3--Thorndyke of the Bonita        By William Wallace Cook
   4--A Round Trip to the Year 2000  By William Wallace Cook

To be published in March, 1925.

   5--The Gold Gleaners              By William Wallace Cook
   6--The Spur of Necessity          By William Wallace Cook

To be published in April, 1925.

   7--The Mysterious Mission         By William Wallace Cook
   8--The Goal of a Million          By William Wallace Cook

To be published in May, 1925.

   9--Marooned in 1492               By William Wallace Cook
  10--Running the Signal             By William Wallace Cook

To be published in June, 1925.

  11--His Friend the Enemy           By William Wallace Cook
  12--In the Web                     By William Wallace Cook
  13--A Deep Sea Game                By William Wallace Cook

       *       *       *       *       *

Round the World Library

Price, Fifteen Cents Stories of Jack Harkaway and His Comrades

Every reader, young and old, has heard of Jack Harkaway. His remarkable
adventures in out-of-the-way corners of the globe are really classics,
and every one should read them.

Jack is a splendid, manly character, full of life and strength and
curiosity. He has a number of very interesting companions--Professor
Mole, for instance, who is very funny. He also has some very strange
enemies, who are anything but funny.

Get interested in Jack. It will pay you.

_ALL TITLES ALWAYS IN PRINT_

   1--Jack Harkaway’s School Days        By Bracebridge Hemyng
   2--Jack Harkaway’s Friends            By Bracebridge Hemyng
   3--Jack Harkaway After School Days    By Bracebridge Hemyng
   4--Jack Harkaway Afloat and Ashore    By Bracebridge Hemyng
   5--Jack Harkaway Among the Pirates    By Bracebridge Hemyng
   6--Jack Harkaway at Oxford            By Bracebridge Hemyng
   7--Jack Harkaway’s Struggles          By Bracebridge Hemyng
   8--Jack Harkaway’s Triumphs           By Bracebridge Hemyng
   9--Jack Harkaway Among the Brigands   By Bracebridge Hemyng
  10--Jack Harkaway’s Return             By Bracebridge Hemyng
  11--Jack Harkaway Around the World     By Bracebridge Hemyng
  12--Jack Harkaway’s Perils             By Bracebridge Hemyng
  13--Jack Harkaway in China             By Bracebridge Hemyng
  14--Jack Harkaway and the Red Dragon   By Bracebridge Hemyng
  15--Jack Harkaway’s Pluck              By Bracebridge Hemyng
  16--Jack Harkaway in Australia         By Bracebridge Hemyng
  17--Jack Harkaway and the Bushrangers  By Bracebridge Hemyng
  18--Jack Harkaway’s Duel               By Bracebridge Hemyng
  19--Jack Harkaway and the Turks        By Bracebridge Hemyng
  20--Jack Harkaway in New York          By Bracebridge Hemyng
  21--Jack Harkaway Out West             By Bracebridge Hemyng
  22--Jack Harkaway Among the Indians    By Bracebridge Hemyng
  23--Jack Harkaway’s Cadet Days         By Bracebridge Hemyng
  24--Jack Harkaway in the Black Hills   By Bracebridge Hemyng
  25--Jack Harkaway in the Toils         By Bracebridge Hemyng
  26--Jack Harkaway’s Secret of Wealth   By Bracebridge Hemyng

       *       *       *       *       *

Not How Much _But_ HOW GOOD

In the editorial preparation of the STREET & SMITH NOVEL the question
of how much in money we were going to get for each volume never really
occurred to us. We lost sight entirely of the fact that these books
sold at 15 cents the copy, and gave as much serious consideration to
the selection and preparation of the stories as though they were going
to sell for ten times as much.

We think, after all, that this is the real test of service. That we
are performing a service to millions of American readers, there can be
no doubt. Never before has such reading matter been placed within the
reach of the modest purse. We have striven to keep our line clean and
feel confident that we have done so.

The very nature of the stories published in the STREET & SMITH NOVELS
insures them consideration from people who have no time nor inclination
to read the classics, and who probably would not read anything else if
they did not have the STREET & SMITH books.

Any decent literature that instills a desire on the part of the general
public to read is, in our opinion, performing a real service.

  STREET & SMITH CORPORATION
  79 Seventh Avenue New York City

       *       *       *       *       *

The Dealer

who handles the STREET & SMITH NOVELS is a man worth patronizing. The
fact that he does handle our books proves that he has considered the
merits of paper-covered lines, and has decided that the STREET & SMITH
NOVELS are superior to all others.

He has looked into the question of the morality of the paper-covered
book, for instance, and feels that he is perfectly safe in handing one
of our novels to any one, because he has our assurance that nothing
except clean, wholesome literature finds its way into our lines.

Therefore, the STREET & SMITH NOVEL dealer is a careful and wise
tradesman, and it is fair to assume selects the other articles he
has for sale with the same degree of intelligence as he does his
paper-covered books.

Deal with the STREET & SMITH NOVEL dealer.

  STREET & SMITH CORPORATION
  79 Seventh Avenue New York City

       *       *       *       *       *

Transcriber’s Notes:

Punctuation has been made consistent.

Variations in spelling and hyphenation were retained as they appear in
the original publication, except that obvious typographical errors have
been corrected.

*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK ON TIME ***

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the
United States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away--you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you will have to check the laws of the country where
  you are located before using this eBook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that:

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation's website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without
widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
